
********** The Complete Prophecies of Nostradamus ***********

C1Q1
Being seated by night in secret study,
alone resting on the brass stool:
A slight flame coming forth from the solitude,
that which is not believed in vain is made to succeed.
C1Q2
With rod in hand set in the midst of Branchus,
with the water he wets both limb and foot:
Fearful, voice trembling through his sleeves:
Divine splendor. The divine seats himself near by.
C1Q3
When the litter is overturned by the whirlwind,
and faces will be covered by their cloaks,
the republic will be vexed by new people,
then whites and reds will judge in contrary ways.
C1Q4
In the world there will be one Monarch
who will not long be in peace or alive:
Then the fishing bark will be lost,
it will be ruled to its greater detriment.
C1Q5
They will be driven away without much fighting,
they will be very much harried in the country:
Town and city will have a greater debate:
Carcassonne and Narbonne will have their hearts tried.
C1Q6
The eye of Ravenna will be forsaken,
when the wings give way at its feet:
The two of Bresse will have made arrangements in
Turin and Vercelli, which the Gauls will trample.
C1Q7
The arrival late, the execution completed,
the wind contrary, the letters seized en route:
The conspirators fourteen of a sect,
the enterprises by the wise Red-haired One.
C1Q8
How many times will you be taken, solar city,
changing the barbarian and vain laws:
Your evil approaches: You will be more tributary,
the great Adria will re-cover your veins.
C1Q9
From the Orient will come the Punic heart
to vex Adria and the heirs of Romulus,
accompanied by the Libyan fleet,
Malta trembling and the neighboring isles empty.
C1Q10
The serpent conveyed in the iron cage
where the seven children of the King are taken:
Their progenitors will come out from their underworld below,
before dying seeing of their offspring death and cries.
C1Q11
The motion of sense, heart, feet and hands
will be in accord. Naples, Leon, Sicily:
Swords, fires, waters, then the noble Romans
submerged, killed, dead because of weak brain.
C1Q12
In a short time a false, frail brute will lead,
elevated quickly from low to high:
Then in an instant disloyal and labile,
he who will have the government of Verona.
C1Q13
The exiles because of anger and intestine hatred
will bring a great conspiracy to bear against the King:
Secretly they will place enemies as a threat,
and his own old ones against them sedition.
C1Q14
From the slavish people songs, chants and requests,
for Princes and Lords captives in the prisons:
In the future such by headless idiots
will be received as divine utterances.
C1Q15
Mars menaces us with his warlike force,
seventy times will he cause blood to flow:
Rise and fall for the clergy and more for
those who will want to hear nothing from them.
C1Q16
The scythe joined with the pond towards Sagittarius
at the high point of its ascendant,
Plague, famine, death by military hand,
the century approaches its renewal.
C1Q17
For forty years the rainbow will not appear,
for forty years it will be seen every day:
The parched earth will wax more dry,
and great floods will accompany its appearance.
C1Q18
Because of the Gallic discord and negligence
a passage will be opened to Mahomet:
The land and sea of Siena soaked in blood,
the Phocaean port covered with sails and ships.
C1Q19
When the serpents will come to encompass the altar,
the Trojan blood will be vexed by the Spaniards:
Because of them a great number will be made to suffer for it, the chief flees, hidden in the marshes.
C1Q20
Tours, Orleans, Blois, Angers, Reims and Nantes,
cities vexed through sudden change:
Tents will be pitched by those of foreign tongues,
rivers, darts at Rennes trembling of the land and sea.
C1Q21
Deep white clay nourishes the rock,
which from an abyss will go forth milky,
needlessly troubled they will not dare touch it,
unaware that the earth at the bottom is clayish.
C1Q22
That which will live without having any sense,
its artifice will come to be fatally injured:
For Autun, Chalon, Langres and the two Sens,
hail and ice will cause much evil.
C1Q23
In the third month the Sun rising,
the Boar and Leopard on the field of Mars to fight:
The tired Leopard raises its eye to the heavens,
sees an Eagle playing around the Sun.
C1Q24
At the new city contemplating a condemnation,
the bird of prey comes to offer itself to the heavens:
after victory pardon to captives,
Cremona and Mantua will have suffered great evils.
C1Q25
Lost, found, hidden for so long a time,
the pastor will be honored as a demigod:
Before the Moon finishes its full period
he will be dishonored by other winds.
C1Q26
The great one of the lighting falls in the daytime,
evil predicted by the bearer of demands:
According to the prediction he falls in the nighttime.
Conflict at Reims, London, Tuscan plague.
C1Q27
Under the oak tree of Guienne struck from the sky,
not far from there is the treasure hidden:
He who for long centuries had been gathered,
found he will perish, his eye put out by a spring.
C1Q28
The tower of Bouc will fear the Barbarian foist,
then much later, the Hesperian bark:
Cattle, people, chattels, both cause great waste,
bull and balance, what a mortal quarrel!
C1Q29
When the terrestrial and aquatic fish
will be put upon the beach by a strong wave,
its form strange, attractive and frightful,
by sea the enemies very soon at the walls.
C1Q30
Because of the stormy seas the strange ship
will approach an unknown port,
notwithstanding the signals from the branch of palm,
after death, pillage: good advice given late.

C1Q31
The wars in Gaul will last for many years,
beyond the course of the monarch of Castulo:
uncertain victory will crown three great ones,
the Eagle, Cock, Moon, Lion, Sun engraved.
C1Q32
The great empire will soon be transferred
to a little place which will very soon come to grow:
a very lowly place in a petty country
in the middle of which he will come to lay down his sceptre.
C1Q33
Near a great bridge of a spacious plain,
the great Lion with Imperial forces,
he will cause a felling outside the austere city,
because of fear the gates will be opened to him.
C1Q34
The bird of prey flying to the left side,
before the conflict preparation made by the French:
One will take it for good, another for ambiguous,
the weak party will hold it as a good omen.
C1Q35
The young lion will overcome the old one
on the field of battle in single combat:
He will put out his eyes in a cage of gold:
Two fleets one, then to die a cruel death.
C1Q36
Too late the monarch will repent
of not having put to death his adversary:
but he will come to consent to a much greater thing,
that of killing off all his blood.
C1Q37
Shortly before the Sun sets,
battle is given a great people in doubt:
Ruined, the marine port makes no reply,
bridge and sepulchre in two strange places.
C1Q38
The Sun and the Eagle will appear as victor,
the vanquished is reassured with a vain reply:
with hue and cry they will not cease arming,
revenge, because of death peace made right on schedule.
C1Q39
By night the highest one strangled in bed
because the blond elect had tarried to long.
the Empire enslaved by three in substitution,
put to death with document and packet unread.
C1Q40
The false trumpet concealing madness
will bear Byzantium a change of laws:
from Egypt there will go forth one who wants withdrawl of
Edicts debasing the quality of coins.
C1Q41
City besieged, and assaulted by night,
few escaped: conflict not far from the sea:
on the return of her son a woman fainting from joy,
poison and letters hidden in the fold.
C1Q42
The tenth of the Calends of April of Gothic count
revived again by wicked folk:
the fire put out, diabolic assembly
searching for the bones of the Demon of Psellus.
C1Q43
Before the change of Empire occurs,
a very marvelous event will take place:
the field moved, the pillar of porphyry
placed, transferred onto the knotty rock.
C1Q44
In short sacrifices will be resumed,
transgressors will be put to martyrdom:
no longer will there be monks, abbots or novices:
honey will be much more expensive than wax.
C1Q45
Founder of sects much grief to the accuser:
Beast in the theater, the pantomine prepared:
the inventor exalted by the ancient fact,
the world confused and schismatic because of sects.

C1Q46
Very near Auch, Lectoure and Mirande
great fire will fall from the sky for three nights:
a very stupendous and marvelous event will occur:
very soon after the earth will tremble.
C1Q47
The sermons from the Lake of Geneva annoying,
from days they will grow into weeks,
then months, then years, then all will fail,
the Magistrates will damn their useless laws.
C1Q48
Twenty years of the reign of the Moon passed,
Seven thousand years another will hold its monarchy:
when the Sun will take its tired days
then is accomplished and finished my prophecy.
C1Q49
Very much before such intrigues
those of the East by virtue of the Moon:
the year 1700 they will cause great ones to be carried off,
almost subjugating the Aquilon corner.
C1Q50
Of the aquatic triplicity there will be born
one who will make of Thursday his holiday:
his fame, praise, rule and power will grow,
by land and sea a tempest to the East.
C1Q51
Jupiter and Saturn in the head of Aries,
Eternal God, what changes!
Then for a long age his wicked time returns,
Gaul and Italy, what disturbance.
C1Q52
The two wicked ones conjoined in Scorpio,
the Grand Seignior murdered in his hall:
Plague to the Church by the King newly joined,
Europe low and northerly.
C1Q53
Alas! a great people will one see tormented
and the holy law in utter ruin,
other laws throughout all Christendom,
when a new mine of gold and silver is discovered.
C1Q54
Two revolutions made by the wicked scythe-bearer,
change made in realm and centuries:
the movable sign so intrusive in its place
to the two equal and like-minded.
C1Q55
Under the climate opposite to the Babylonian
their will be great effusion of blood,
the unrighteous will be on land and sea, in air and sky,
Sects, famine, realms, plagues, confusion.
C1Q56
You will see great change made soon and late,
extreme horrors and vengeances.
Because as the Moon is conducted by its angel,
the Sun is approaching its inclinations.
C1Q57
Through great dissension the earth will tremble,
harmony broken lifting its head to heaven:
the bloody mouth will swim in the blood,
on the ground the face anointed with milk and honey.
C1Q58
The belly cut, it will be born with two heads
and four arms: several years it will live intact:
the day on which Aquileia will celebrate its feasts,
Fossano, Turin, the chief of Ferrara will follow.
C1Q59
The exiles transported to the isles,
at the advent of a more cruel monarch,
will be murdered, and burnt two
who had not been sparing with their speech.
C1Q60
An Emperor will be born near Italy,
one who will cost his Empire a high price:
they will say that from the sort of people who surround him
he is to be found less prince than butcher.

C1Q61
The miserable unhappy republic
will be ruined by the new magistrate:
their great accumulation in wicked exile
will cause the Suevi to tear up their great contract.
C1Q62
Alas! What a great loss will letters suffer,
before the cycle of Latona is completed:
fire, great deluge more through ignorant rulers
than will be seen made up for a long time.
C1Q63
The scourges passed the world shrinks,
for a long time peace and populated lands:
one will travel safely by air, land, sea and wave,
then the wars stirred up anew.
C1Q64
They will think they have seen the Sun at night
when they will see the pig half-man:
noise, song, battle, fighting in the sky perceived,
and one will hear brute beasts talking.
C1Q65
Child without hands never was so great a thunderbolt seen:
the royal child wounded at the game of tennis.
On the hill fractures: lightning going to grind:
Three under the oaks trussed up in the middle.
C1Q66
He who then will bear the news,
he will shortly after come to rest.
Viviers, Tournon, Montferrand and Pradelles,
hail and storms will make them sigh.
C1Q67
The great famine that I sense approaching,
often turning, then becoming universal,
so great and long that one will come to pull out
roots from woods, and babe from breast.
C1Q68
Oh, what a horrible and miserable torment,
three innocent ones whom one will come to deliver.
Poison suspected, poorly guarded betrayal:
delivered to horror by drunken executioners.
C1Q69
The great round mountain of seven stades,
after peace, war, famine, flood,
it will roll far sinking great countries,
even the ancient ones, and of great foundation.
C1Q70
Rain, famine, war in Persia not over,
the too great faith will betray the monarch,
finished there begun in Gaul:
secret sign for one to be moderate.
C1Q71
The marine tower thrice taken and retaken
by Spaniards, Barbarians and Ligurians:
Marseilles and Aix, Arles by those of Pisa.
Devastation, fire, swords, Avignon pillaged by Turinese.
C1Q72
The inhabitants of Marseilles completely changed,
flight and pursuit up to near Lyons.
Narbonne, Toulouse wronged by Bordeaux:
Killed and captives nearly a million.
C1Q73
France because of negligence assailed on five sides,
Tunis, Algiers stirred up by Persians:
Leon, Seville, Barcelona having failed,
for the Venetians there will be no fleet.
C1Q74
After having tarried they will wander into Epirus:
The great relief will come towards Antioch,
the black frizzled hair will strive strongly for the Empire:
Bronzebeard will roast him on a spit.
C1Q75
The tyrant of Siena will occupy Savona:
The fort won he will hold the marine fleet:
The two armies for the march of Ancona,
because of terror chief examines his conscience about it.

C1Q76
With a name so wild will he be brought forth
that the three sisters will have the name for destiny:
Then he will lead a great people by tongue and deed,
more than any other will he have fame and renown.
C1Q77
Between two seas he will erect a promontory
he who will then die by the bite of a horse:
The proud Neptune will fold the black sail,
through Gibraltar and the fleet near Rocheval.
C1Q78
He will be born of an old chief with dulled senses,
degenerating in knowledge and in arms:
The chief of France feared by his sister,
fields divided, granted to the troops.
C1Q79
Bazas, Lectoure, Condom, Auch, Agen
moved by laws, quarrel and monopoly:
For Bordeaux Toulous Bayonne will ruin:
Wishing to renew their bull-sacrifice.
C1Q80
From the sixth bright celestial splendor
it will come to thunder very fiercely in Burgundy:
Then of a very hideous beast will be born a monster.
March, April, May, June great tearing and clipping.
C1Q81
Nine will be set aside from the human flock,
removed from judgment and counsel:
Their fate will be determined on departure,
Kappa, Thita, Lambda, dead, banished, astray.
C1Q82
When the columns of wood trembling greatly,
led by the South Wind, covered with red ochre:
A very great assembly will empty outside,
Vienna and the land of Austria will tremble.
C1Q83
The strange nation will divide spoils,
Saturn in Mars his aspect furious:
Horrible slaughter of the Tuscans and Latins,
Greeks, who will desire to strike.
C1Q84
The Moon hidden in deep shadows,
her brother passes with rusty color:
The great one hidden for a long time under the eclipses,
iron will cool in the bloody wound.
C1Q85
Because of the lady's reply, the King troubled:
Ambassadors will take their lives in their hands:
The great one doubly will imitate his brothers,
two who will die through anger, hatred and envy.
C1Q86
The great Queen when she shall see herself vanquished
will act with an excess of masculine courage:
On horseback, she will pass over the river entirely naked,
pursued by the sword: it will mark an outrage to faith.
C1Q87
Volcanic fire from the center of the earth
will cause trembling around the new city:
Two great rocks will make war for a long time.
Then Arethusa will redden a new river.
C1Q88
The divine sickness will surprise the great Prince
shortly before he will have married a woman,
his support and credit will suddenly become slim,
counsel will perish for the shaven head.
C1Q89
All those from Lerida will be in Moselle,
putting to death all those from the Loire and Seine:
Marine relief will come near the high wall
when the Spaniards open every vein.
C1Q90
Bordeaux, Poitiers at the sound of the tocsin,
with a great fleet one will go as far as Langon,
their north wind will be against the Gauls,
when a hideous monster will be born near Orgon.

C1Q91
The Gods will make it appear to the mortals
that they will be the authors of the great conflict:
Sword and lance before the sky is seen serene,
so that there will be a greater affliction to the left hand.
C1Q92
Under one peace will be proclaimed everywhere,
but not long after pillage and rebellion,
because of a refusal town, land and sea encroached upon,
dead and captives one third of a million.
C1Q93
The land of Italy will tremble near the mountains,
Lion and Cock not too well confederated,
in place of fear they will help each other,
only Castulo and the Celts moderate.
C1Q94
At Port Selin the tyrant put to death
liberty nevertheless not recovered:
The new Mars because of vengeance and remorse,
the Lady honored through force of terror.
C1Q95
A twin child found before the monastery
one of the ancient and heroic blood of a monk:
His fame, renown and power through sect and tongue
Such that one will say the perfect twin has been well raised.
C1Q96
He who will have charge of destroying
temples and sects, changed through fantasy:
He will come to do more harm to rocks than to living people
because of the din in his ears of a polished tongue.
C1Q97
That which fire and sword did not know how to accomplish,
the smooth tongue in council will come to achieve:
Through repose, a dream, the King will be made to meditate,
the enemy more in fire and military blood.
C1Q98
The chief who will have led an infinite people
far from skies of their own, of customs and tongue strange:
Five thousand finished in Crete and Thessaly,
the chief fleeing saved in a marine barn.
C1Q99
The great monarch who will make company
with two Kings united by friendship:
Oh, what a sigh will the great host make,
children around Narbonne, what a pity.
C1Q100
For a long time a gray bird will be seen in the sky
near Dole and Tuscan land:
Holding in its beak a verdant sprig,
soon the great one will die and the war will end.
C2Q1
Towards Aquitaine by the British isles
by these themselves great incursions.
Rains, frosts will make the soil uneven,
Port Selyn will make mighty invasions.
C2Q2
The blue head will inflict upon the white head
as much evil as France has done them good:
Dead at the sail-yard the great one hung on the branch,
when seized by his own the King will say how much.
C2Q3
Because of the solar heat on the sea
of Euboea the fishes half cooked:
The inhabitants will come to cut them,
when the biscuit will fail Rhodes and Genoa.
C2Q4
From Monaco to near Sicily
the entire coast will remain desolated:
There will remain there no suburb, city or town
not pillaged and robbed by the Barbarians.





C2Q5
That which is enclosed in iron and letter in a fish,
out will go one who will then make war,
he will have his fleet well rowed by sea,
appearing near Latin land.
C2Q6
Near the gates and within the cities
there will be two scourges the like of which was never seen,
famine within plague, people put out by steel,
crying to the great immortal God for relief.
C2Q7
Amongst several transported to the isles,
one to be born with two teeth in his mouth
they will die of famine the trees stripped,
for them a new King issues a new edict.
C2Q8
Temples consecrated in the original Roman manner,
they will reject the excess foundations,
taking their first and humane laws,
chasing, though not entirely, the cult of saints.
C2Q9
Nine years the lean one will hold the realm in peace,
then he will fall into a very bloody thirst:
Because of him a great people will die without faith and law
killed by one far more good-natured.
C2Q10
Before long all will be set in order,
we will expect a very sinister century,
the state of the masked and solitary ones much changed,
few will be found who want to be in their place.
C2Q11
The nearest son of the elder will attain
very great height as far as the realm of the privileged:
Everyone will fear his fierce glory,
but his children will be thrown out of the realm.
C2Q12
Eyes closed, opened by antique fantasy,
the garb of the monks they will be put to naught:
The great monarch will chastise their frenzy,
Ravishing the treasure in front of the temples.
C2Q13
The body without soul no longer to be sacrificed:
Day of death put for birthday:
The divine spirit will make the soul happy,
seeing the word in its eternity.
C2Q14
At Tours, Gien, guarded, eyes will be searching,
discovering from afar her serene Highness:
She and her suite will enter the port,
combat, thrust, sovereign power.
C2Q15
Shortly before the monarch is assassinated,
Castor and Pollux in the ship, bearded star:
The public treasure emptied by land and sea,
Pisa, Asti, Ferrara, Turin land under interdict.
C2Q16
Naples, Palermo, Sicily, Syracuse,
new tyrants, celestial lightning fires:
Force from London, Ghent, Brussels and Susa,
great slaughter, triumph leads to festivities.
C2Q17
The field of the temple of the vestal virgin,
not far from Elne and the Pyrenees mountains:
The great tube is hidden in the trunk,
to the north rivers overflown and vines battered.
C2Q18
New, impetuous and sudden rain
will suddenly halt two armies.
Celestial stone, fires make the sea stony,
the death of seven by land and sea sudden.
C2Q19
Newcomers, place built without defense,
place occupied then uninhabitable:
Meadows, houses, fields, towns to take at pleasure,
famine, plague, war, extensive land arable.

C2Q20
Brothers and sisters captive in diverse places
will find themselves passing near the monarch:
Contemplating them his branches attentive,
displeasing to see the marks on chin, forehead and nose.
C2Q21
The ambassador sent by biremes,
halfway repelled by unknown ones:
Reinforced with salt four triremes will come,
in Euboea bound with ropes and chains.
C2Q22
The imprudent army of Europe will depart,
collecting itself near the submerged isle:
The weak fleet will bend the phalanx,
at the navel of the world a greater voice substituted.
C2Q23
Palace birds, chased out by a bird,
very soon after the prince has arrived:
Although the enemy is repelled beyond the river,
outside seized the trick upheld by the bird.
C2Q24
Beasts ferocious from hunger will swim across rivers:
The greater part of the region will be against the Hister,
the great one will cause it to be dragged in an iron cage,
when the German child will observe nothing.
C2Q25
The foreign guard will betray the fortress,
hope and shadow of a higher marriage:
Guard deceived, fort seized in the press,
Loire, Saone, Rhone, Garonne, mortal outrage.
C2Q26
Because of the favor that the city will show
to the great one who will soon lose the field of battle,
fleeing the Po position, the Ticino will overflow
with blood, fires, deaths, drowned by the long-edged blow.
C2Q27
The divine word will be struck from the sky,
one who cannot proceed any further:
The secret closed up with the revelation,
such that they will march over and ahead.
C2Q28
The penultimate of the surname of the Prophet
will take Diana for his day and rest:
He will wander far because of a frantic head,
and delivering a great people from subjection.
C2Q29
The Easterner will leave his seat,
to pass the Apennine mountains to see Gaul:
He will transpierce the sky, the waters and the snow,
and everyone will be struck with his rod.
C2Q30
One who the infernal gods of Hannibal
will cause to be reborn, terror of mankind
never more horror nor worse of days
in the past than will come to the Romans through Babel.
C2Q31
In Campania the Capuan river will do so much
that one will see only fields covered by waters:
Before and after the long rain
one will see nothing green except the trees.
C2Q32
Milk, frog's blood prepared in Dalmatia.
Conflict given, plague near Treglia:
A great cry will sound through all Slavonia,
then a monster will be born near and within Ravenna.
C2Q33
Through the torrent which descends from Verona
its entry will then be guided to the Po,
a great wreck, and no less in the Garonne,
when those of Genoa march against their country.
C2Q34
The senseless ire of the furious combat
will cause steel to be flashed at the table by brothers:
To part them death, wound, and curiously,
the proud duel will come to harm France.

C2Q35
The fire by night will take hold in two lodgings,
several within suffocated and roasted.
It will happen near two rivers as one:
Sun, Sagittarius and Capricorn all will be reduced.
C2Q36
The letters of the great Prophet will be seized,
they will come to fall into the hands of the tyrant:
His enterprises will be to deceive his King,
but his extortions will very soon trouble him.
C2Q37
Of that great number that one will send
to relieve those besieged in the fort,
plague and famine will devour them all,
except seventy who will be destroyed.
C2Q38
A great number will be condemned
when the monarchs will be reconciled:
But for one of them such a bad impediment will arise
that they will be joined together but loosely.
C2Q39
One year before the Italian conflict,
Germans, Gauls, Spaniards for the fort:
The republican schoolhouse will fall,
there, except for a few, they will be choked dead.
C2Q40
Shortly afterwards, without a very long interval,
by sea and land a great uproar will be raised:
Naval battle will be very much greater,
fires, animals, those who will cause greater insult.
C2Q41
The great star will burn for seven days,
the cloud will cause two suns to appear:
The big mastiff will howl all night
when the great pontiff will change country.
C2Q42
Cock, dogs and cats will be satiated with blood
and from the wound of the tyrant found dead,
at the bed of another legs and arms broken,
he who was not afraid to die a cruel death.
C2Q43
During the appearance of the bearded star,
the three great princes will be made enemies:
Struck from the sky, peace earth quaking,
Po, Tiber overflowing, serpent placed upon the shore.
C2Q44
The Eagle driven back around the tents
will be chased from there by other birds:
When the noise of cymbals, trumpets and bells
will restore the senses of the senseless lady.
C2Q45
Too much the heavens weep for the Hermaphrodite begotten,
near the heavens human blood shed:
Because of death too late a great people re-created,
late and soon the awaited relief comes.
C2Q46
After great trouble for humanity, a greater one is prepared
the Great Mover renews the ages:
Rain, blood, milk, famine, steel and plague,
in the heavens fire seen, a long spark running.
C2Q47
The great old enemy mourning dies of poison,
the sovereigns subjugated in infinite numbers:
Stones raining, hidden under the fleece,
through death articles are cited in vain.
C2Q48
The great force which will pass the mountains.
Saturn in Sagittarius Mars turning from the fish:
Poison hidden under the heads of salmon,
their war-chief hung with cord.





C2Q49
The advisers of the first monopoly,
the conquerors seduced for Malta:
Rhodes, Byzantium for them exposing their pole:
Land will fail the pursuers in flight.
C2Q50
When those of Hainaut, of Ghent and of Brussels
will see the siege laid before Langres:
Behind their flanks there will be cruel wars,
the ancient wound will do worse than enemies.
C2Q51
The blood of the just will commit a fault at London,
burnt through lighting of twenty threes the six:
The ancient lady will fall from her high place,
several of the same sect will be killed.
C2Q52
For several nights the earth will tremble:
In the spring two efforts in succession:
Corinth, Ephesus will swim in two seas:
War stirred up by two valiant in combat.
C2Q53
The great plague of the maritime city
will not cease until there be avenged the death
of the just blood, condemned for a price without crime,
of the great lady unwronged by pretense.
C2Q54
Because of people strange, and distant from the Romans
their great city much trouble after water:
Daughter handless, domain too different,
chief taken, lock not having been picked.
C2Q55
In the conflict the great one who was worth little
at his end will perform a marvelous deed:
While Adria will see what he was lacking,
during the banquet the proud one stabbed.
C2Q56
One whom neither plague nor steel knew how to finish,
death on the summit of the hills struck from the sky:
The abbot will die when he will see ruined
those of the wreck wishing to seize the rock.
C2Q57
Before the conflict the great wall will fall,
the great one to death, death too sudden and lamented,
born imperfect: the greater part will swim:
Near the river the land stained with blood.
C2Q58
With neither foot nor hand because of sharp and strong tooth
through the crowd to the fort of the pork and the elder born:
Near the portal treacherous proceeds,
Moon shining, little great one led off.
C2Q59
Gallic fleet through support of the great guard
of the great Neptune, and his trident soldiers,
provence reddened to sustain a great band:
More at Narbonne, because of javelins and darts.
C2Q60
The Punic faith broken in the East,
Ganges, Jordan, and Rhone, Loire, and Tagus will change:
When the hunger of the will be satiated,
fleet sprinkles, blood and bodies will swim.
C2Q61
Bravo, ye of Tamins, Gironde and La Rochelle:
O Trojan blood! Mars at the port of the arrow
behind the river the ladder put to the fort,
points to fire great murder on the breach.
C2Q62
Mabus then will soon die, there will come
of people and beasts a horrible rout:
Then suddenly one will see vengeance,
hundred, hand, thirst, hunger when the comet will run.




C2Q63
The Gauls Ausonia will subjugate very little,
Po, Marne and Seine Parma will make drunk:
He who will prepare the great wall against them,
he will lose his life the least at the wall.
C2Q64
The people of Geneva drying up with hunger, with thirst,
hope at hand will come to fail:
On the point of trembling the law of him of Cevennes,
fleet at the great port cannot be received.
C2Q65
The sloping park great calamity
to be done through Hesperia and Insubria:
The fire in the ship, plague and captivity,
Mercury in Sagittarius Saturn will fade.
C2Q66
Through great dangers the captives escaped:
In a short time great his fortune changed.
In the palace the people are trapped,
through good omen the city besieged.
C2Q67
The blond one will come to compromise the fork-nosed one
through the duel and will chase him out:
The exiles within he will have restored,
committing the strongest to the marine places.
C2Q68
The efforts of Aquilon will be great:
The gate on the Ocean will be opened,
the Kingdom on the Isle will be restored:
London will tremble discovered by sail.
C2Q69
The Gallic King through his Celtic right arm
seeing the discord of the great Monarchy:
He will cause his sceptre to flourish over the three parts,
against the cope of the great Hierarchy.
C2Q70
The dart from the sky will make its extension,
deaths in speaking: great execution.
The stone in the tree, the proud nation restored,
noise, human monster, purge expiation.
C2Q71
The exiles will come into Sicily
to deliver from hunger the strange nation:
At daybreak the Celts will fail them:
Life remains by reason: the King joins.
C2Q72
Celtic army vexed in Italy
on all sides conflict and great loss:
Romans fled, O Gaul repelled!
Near the Ticino, Rubicon uncertain battle.
C2Q73
The shore of Lake Garda to Lake Fucino,
taken from the Lake of Geneva to the port of L'Orguion:
Born with three arms the predicted warlike image,
through three crowns to the great Endymion.
C2Q74
From Sens, from Autun they will come as far as the Rhone
to pass beyond towards the Pyrenees mountains:
The nation to leave the March of Ancona:
By land and sea it will be followed by great suites.
C2Q75
The voice of the rare bird heard,
on the pipe of the air-vent floor:
So high will the bushel of wheat rise,
that man will be eating his fellow man.
C2Q76
Lightning in Burgundy will perform a portentous deed,
one which could never have been done by skill,
sexton made lame by their senate
will make the affair known to the enemies.
C2Q77
Hurled back through bows, fires, pitch and by fires:
Cries, howls heard at midnight:
Within they are placed on the broken ramparts,
the traitors fled by the underground passages.

C2Q78
The great Neptune of the deep of the sea
with Punic race and Gallic blood mixed.
The Isles bled, because of the tardy rowing:
More harm will it do him than the ill-concealed secret.
C2Q79
The beard frizzled and black through skill
will subjugate the cruel and proud people:
The great Chyren will remove from far away
all those captured by the banner of Selin.
C2Q80
After the conflict by the eloquence of the wounded one
for a short time a soft rest is contrived:
The great ones are not to be allowed deliverance at all:
They are restored by the enemies at the proper time.
C2Q81
Through fire from the sky the city almost burned:
The Urn threatens Deucalion again:
Sardinia vexed by the Punic foist,
after Libra will leave her Phaethon.
C2Q82
Through hunger the prey will make the wolf prisoner,
the aggressor then in extreme distress.
The heir having the last one before him,
the great one does not escape in the middle of the crowd.
C2Q83
The large trade of a great Lyons changed,
the greater part turns to pristine ruin
prey to the soldiers swept away by pillage:
Through the Jura mountain and Suevia drizzle.
C2Q84
Between Campania, Siena, Florence, Tuscany,
Six months nine days without a drop of rain:
The strange tongue in the Dalmatian land,
it will overrun, devastating the entire land.
C2Q85
The old full beard under the severe statute
made at Lyon over the Celtic Eagle:
The little great one perseveres too far:
Noise of arms in the sky: Ligurian sea red.
C2Q86
Wreck for the fleet near the Adriatic Sea:
The land trembles stirred up upon the air placed on land:
Egypt trembles Mahometan increase,
the Herald surrendering himself is appointed to cry out.
C2Q87
After there will come from the outermost countries
a German Prince, upon the golden throne:
The servitude and waters met,
the lady serves, her time no longer adored.
C2Q88
The circuit of the great ruinous deed,
the seventh name of the fifth will be:
Of a third greater the stranger warlike:
Sheep, Paris, Aix will not guarantee.
C2Q89
One day the two great masters will be friends,
their great power will be seen increased:
The new land will be at its high peak,
to the bloody one the number recounted.
C2Q90
Through life and death the realm of Hungary changed:
The law will be more harsh than service:
Their great city cries out with howls and laments,
Castor and Pollux enemies in the arena.
C2Q91
At sunrise one will see a great fire,
noise and light extending towards Aquilon:
Within the circle death and one will hear cries,
through steel, fire, famine, death awaiting them.
C2Q92
Fire color of gold from the sky seen on earth:
Heir struck from on high, marvelous deed done:
Great human murder: the nephew of the great one taken,
deaths spectacular the proud one escaped.

C2Q93
Very near the Tiber presses death:
Shortly before great inundation:
The chief of the ship taken, thrown into the bilge:
Castle, palace in conflagration.
C2Q94
Great Po, great evil will be received through Gauls,
vain terror to the maritime Lion:
People will pass by the sea in infinite numbers,
Without a quarter of a million escaping.
C2Q95
The populous places will be uninhabitable:
Great discord to obtain fields:
Realms delivered to prudent incapable ones:
Then for the great brothers dissension and death.
C2Q96
Burning torch will be seen in the sky at night
near the end and beginning of the Rhone:
Famine, steel: the relief provided late,
Persia turns to invade Macedonia.
C2Q97
Roman Pontiff beware of approaching
the city that two rivers flow through,
near there your blood will come to spirt,
you and yours when the rose will flourish.
C2Q98
The one whose face is splattered with the blood
of the victim nearly sacrificed:
Jupiter in Leon, omen through presage:
To be put to death then for the bride.
C2Q99
Roman land as the omen interpreted
will be vexed too much by the Gallic people:
But the Celtic nation will fear the hour,
the fleet has been pushed too far by the north wind.
C2Q100
Within the isles a very horrible uproar,
one will hear only a party of war,
so great will be the insult of the plunderers
that they will come to be joined in the great league.
C3Q1
After combat and naval battle,
the great Neptune in his highest belfry:
Red adversary will become pale with fear,
putting the great Ocean in dread.
C3Q2
The divine word will give to the substance,
including heaven, earth, gold hidden in the mystic milk:
Body, soul, spirit having all power,
as much under its feet as the Heavenly see.
C3Q3
Mars and Mercury, and the silver joined together,
towards the south extreme drought:
In the depths of Asia one will say the earth trembles,
Corinth, Ephesus then in perplexity.
C3Q4
When they will be close the lunar ones will fail,
from one another not greatly distant,
cold, dryness, danger towards the frontiers,
even where the oracle has had its beginning.
C3Q5
Near, far the failure of the great luminaries
which will occur between April and March.
Oh, what a loss! but two great good-natured ones
by land and sea will relieve all parts.
C3Q6
Within the closed temple the lighting will enter,
the citizens within their fort injured:
Horses, cattle, men, the wave will touch the wall,
through famine, drought, under the weakest armed.
C3Q7
The fugitives, fire from the sky on the pikes:
Conflict near the ravens frolicking,
from land they cry for aid and heavenly relief,
when the combatants will be near the walls.

C3Q8
The Cimbri joined with their neighbors
will come to ravage almost Spain:
People gathered in Guienne and Limousin
will be in league, and will bear them company.
C3Q9
Bordeaux, Rouen and La Rochelle joined
will hold around the great Ocean sea,
English, Bretons and the Flemings allied
will chase them as far as Roanne.
C3Q10
Greater calamity of blood and famine,
seven times it approaches the marine shore:
Monaco from hunger, place captured, captivity,
the great one led crunching in a metaled cage.
C3Q11
The arms to fight in the sky a long time,
the tree in the middle of the city fallen:
Sacred bough clipped, steel, in the face of the firebrand,
then the monarch of Adria fallen.
C3Q12
Because of the swelling Ebro, Po, Tagus, Tiber and Rhone
and because of the pond of Geneva and Arezzo,
the two great chiefs and cities of the Garonne,
taken, dead, drowned: human booty divided.
C3Q13
Through lightning in the arch gold and silver melted,
of two captives one will eat the other:
The greatest one of the city stretched out,
when submerged the fleet will swim.
C3Q14
Through the branch of the valiant personage
of lowest France: because of the unhappy father
honors, riches, travail in his old age,
for having believed the advice of a simple man.
C3Q15
The realm will change in heart, vigor and glory,
in all points having its adversary opposed:
Then through death France an infancy will subjugate,
A great Regent will then be more contrary.
C3Q16
An English prince Mars in his heavenly heart
Will want to pursue his prosperous fortune,
Of the two duels one will pierce his gall:
Hated by him well loved by his mother.
C3Q17
Mount Aventine will be seen to burn at night:
The sky very suddenly dark in Flanders:
When the monarch will chase his nephew,
Then Church people will commit scandals.
C3Q18
After the rather long rain milk,
In several places in Reims the sky touched:
Alas, what a bloody murder is prepared near them,
Fathers and sons Kings will not dare approach.
C3Q19
In Lucca it will come to rain blood and milk,
Shortly before a change of praetor:
Great plague and war, famine and drought will be visible
Far away where their prince and rector will die.
C3Q20
Through the regions of the great river Guadalquivir
Deep in Iberia to the Kingdom of Grenada
Crosses beaten back by the Mahometan peoples
One of Cordova will betray his country.
C3Q21
In the Conca by the Adriatic Sea
There will appear a horrible fish,
With face human and its end aquatic,
Which will be taken without the hook.
C3Q22
Six days the attack made before the city:
Battle will be given strong and harsh:
Three will surrender it, and to them pardon:
The rest to fire and to bloody slicing and cutting.

C3Q23
If, France, you pass beyond the Ligurian Sea,
You will see yourself shut up in islands and seas:
Mahomet contrary, more so the Adriatic Sea:
You will gnaw the bones of horses and asses.
C3Q24
Great confusion in the enterprise,
Loss of people, countless treasure:
You ought not to extend further there.
France, let what I say be remembered.
C3Q25
He who will attain to the Kingdom of Navarre
When Sicily and Naples will be joined:
He will hold Bigorre and Landes through Foix and Oloron
From one who will be too closely allied with Spain.
C3Q26
They will prepare idols of Kings and Princes,
Soothsayers and empty prophets elevated:
Horn, victim of gold, and azure, dazzling,
The soothsayers will be interpreted.
C3Q27
Libyan Prince powerful in the West
Will come to inflame very much French with Arabian.
Learned in letters condescending he will
Translate the Arabian language into French.
C3Q28
Of land weak and parentage poor,
Through piece and peace he will attain to the empire.
For a long time a young female to reign,
Never has one so bad come upon the Kingdom.
C3Q29
The two nephews brought up in diverse places:
Naval battle, land, fathers fallen:
They will come to be elevated very high in making war
To avenge the injury, enemies succumbed.
C3Q30
He who during the struggle with steel in the deed of war
Will have carried off the prize from one greater than he:
By night six will carry the grudge to his bed,
Without armor he will be surprised suddenly.
C3Q31
On the fields of Media, of Arabia and of Armenia
Two great armies will assemble thrice:
The host near the bank of the Araxes,
They will fall in the land of the great Suleiman.
C3Q32
The great tomb of the people of Aquitaine
Will approach near to Tuscany,
When Mars will be in the corner of Germany
And in the land of the Mantuan people.
C3Q33
In the city where the wolf will enter,
Very near there will the enemies be:
Foreign army will spoil a great country.
The friends will pass at the walls and Alps.
C3Q34
When the eclipse of the Sun will then be,
The monster will be seen in full day:
Quite otherwise will one interpret it,
High price unguarded: none will have foreseen it.
C3Q35
From the very depths of the West of Europe,
A young child will be born of poor people,
He who by his tongue will seduce a great troop:
His fame will increase towards the realm of the East.
C3Q36
Buried apoplectic not dead,
He will be found to have his hands eaten:
When the city will condemn the heretic,
He who it seemed to them had changed their laws.
C3Q37
The speech delivered before the attack,
Milan taken by Eagle through deceptive ambushes:
Ancient wall driven in by cannons,
Through fire and blood few given quarter.

C3Q38
The Gallic people and a foreign nation
Beyond the mountains, dead, captured and killed:
In the contrary month and near vintage time,
Through the Lords drawn up in accord.
C3Q39
The seven in three months in agreement
To subjugate the Apennine Alps:
But the tempest and cowardly Ligurian,
Destroys them in sudden ruins.
C3Q40
The great theater will come to be set up again:
The dice cast and the snares already laid.
Too much the first one will come to tire in the death knell,
Prostrated by arches already a long time split.
C3Q41
Hunchback will be elected by the council,
A more hideous monster not seen on earth,
The willing blow will put out his eye:
The traitor to King received as faithful.
C3Q42
The child will be born with two teeth in his mouth,
Stones will fall during the rain in Tuscany:
A few years after there will be neither wheat nor barley,
To satiate those who will faint from hunger.
C3Q43
People from around the Tarn, Lot and Garonne
Beware of passing the Apennine mountains:
Your tomb near Rome and Ancona,
The black frizzled beard will have a trophy set up.
C3Q44
When the animal domesticated by man
After great pains and leaps will come to speak:
The lightning to virgin will be very harmful,
Taken from earth and suspended in the air.
C3Q45
The five strangers entered in the temple,
Their blood will come to pollute the land:
To the Toulousans it will be a very hard example
Of one who will come to exterminate their laws.
C3Q46
The sky ( of Plancus' city ) forebodes to us
Through clear signs and fixed stars,
That the time of its sudden change is approaching,
Neither for its good, nor for its evils.
C3Q47
The old monarch chased out of his realm
Will go to the East asking for its help:
For fear of the crosses he will fold his banner:
To Mitylene he will go through port and by land.
C3Q48
Seven hundred captives bound roughly,
Lots drawn for the half to be murdered:
The hope at hand will come very promptly
But not as soon as the fifteenth death.
C3Q49
Gallic realm, you will be much changed:
To a foreign place is the empire transferred:
You will be set up amidst other customs and laws:
Rouen and Chartres will do much of the worst to you.
C3Q50
The republic of the great city
Will not want to consent to the great severity:
King summoned by trumpet to go out,
The ladder at the wall, the city will repent.
C3Q51
Paris conspires to commit a great murder
Blois will cause it to be fully carried out:
Those of Orleans will want to replace their chief,
Angers, Troyes, Langres will commit a misdeed against them.
C3Q52
In Campania there will be a very long rain,
In Apulia very great drought.
The Cock will see the Eagle, its wing poorly finished,
By the Lion will it be put into extremity.
C3Q53
When the greatest one will carry off the prize
Of Nuremberg, of Augsburg, and those of Bale
Through Cologne the chief Frankfort retaken
They will cross through Flanders right into Gaul.
C3Q54
One of the greatest ones will flee to Spain
Which will thereafter come to bleed in a long wound:
Armies passing over the high mountains,
Devastating all, and then to reign in peace.
C3Q55
In the year that one eye will reign in France,
The court will be in very unpleasant trouble:
The great on of Blois will kill his friend:
The realm placed in harm and double doubt.
C3Q56
Montauban, Nimes, Avigon and Beziers,
Plague, thunder and hail in the wake of Mars:
Of Paris bridge, Lyons wall, Montpellier,
After six hundreds and seven score three pairs.
C3Q57
Seven times will you see the British nation change,
Steeped in blood in 290 years:
Free not at all its support Germanic.
Aries doubts his Bastarnian pole.
C3Q58
Near the Rhine from the Noric mountains
Will be born a great one of people come too late,
One who will defend Sarmatia and the Pannonians,
One will not know what will have become of him.
C3Q59
Barbarian empire usurped by the third,
The greater part of his blood he will put to death:
Through senile death the fourth struck by him,
For fear that the blood through the blood be not dead.
C3Q60
Throughout all Asia great proscription,
Even in Mysia, Lycia and Pamphilia.
Blood will be shed because of the absolution
Of a young black one filled with felony.
C3Q61
The great band and sect of crusaders
Will be arrayed in Mesopotamia:
Light company of the nearby river,
That such law will hold for an enemy.
C3Q62
Near the Douro by the closed Tyrian sea,
He will come to pierce the great Pyrenees mountains.
One hand shorter and his opening glosses,
He will lead his traces to Carcassonne.
C3Q63
The Roman power will be thoroughly abased,
Following in the footsteps of its great neighbor:
Hidden civil hatreds and debates
Will delay their follies for the buffoons.
C3Q64
The chief of Persia will occupy great Olchades,
The trireme fleet against the Mahometan people
From Parthia, and Media: and the Cyclades pillaged:
Long rest at the great Ionian port.
C3Q65
When the sepulchre of the great Roman is found,
The day after a Pontiff will be elected:
Scarcely will he be approved by the Senate
Poisoned, his blood in the sacred chalice.
C3Q66
The great Bailiff of Orleans put to death
Will be by one of blood revengeful:
Of death deserved he will not die, nor by chance:
He made captive poorly by his feet and hands.
C3Q67
A new sect of Philosophers
Despising death, gold, honors and riches
Will not be bordering upon the German mountains:
To follow them they will have power and crowds.

C3Q68
Leaderless people of Spain and Italy
Dead, overcome within the Peninsula:
Their dictator betrayed by irresponsible folly,
Swimming in blood everywhere in the latitude.
C3Q69
The great army led by a young man,
It will come to surrender itself to its enemies:
But the old one born to the half-pig,
He will cause Chalon and Macon to be friends.
C3Q70
The great Britain including England
Will come to be flooded very high by waters
The new League of Ausonia will make war,
So that they will come to strive against them.
C3Q71
Those in the isles long besieged
Will take vigor and force against their enemies:
Those outside dead overcome by hunger,
They will be put in greater hunger than ever before.
C3Q72
The good old man buried quite alive,
Near the great river through false suspicion:
The new old man ennobled by riches,
Captured on the road all his gold for ransom.
C3Q73
When the cripple will attain to the realm,
For his competitor he will have a near bastard:
He and the realm will become so very mangy
That before he recovers, it will be too late.
C3Q74
Naples, Florence, Faenza and Imola,
They will be on terms of such disagreement
As to delight in the wretches of Nola
Complaining of having mocked its chief.
C3Q75
Pau, Verona, Vicenza, Saragossa,
From distant swords lands wet with blood:
Very great plague will come with the great shell,
Relief near, and the remedies very far.
C3Q76
In Germany will be born diverse sects,
Coming very near happy paganism,
The heart captive and returns small,
They will return to paying the true tithe.
C3Q77
The third climate included under Aries
The year 1727 in October,
The King of Persia captured by those of Egypt:
Conflict, death, loss: to the cross great Shame.
C3Q78
The chief of Scotland, with six of Germany
Captive of the Eastern seamen:
They will pass Gibraltar and Spain,
Present in Persia for the fearful new King.
C3Q79
The fatal everlasting order through the chain
Will come to turn through consistent order:
The chain of Marseilles will be broken:
The city taken, the enemy at the same time.
C3Q80
The worthy one chased out of English realm,
The adviser through anger put to the fire:
His adherents will go so low to efface themselves
That the bastard will be half received.
C3Q81
The great shameless, audacious bawler,
He will be elected governor of the army:
The boldness of his contention,
The bridge broken, the city faint from fear.
C3Q82
Frejus, Antibes, towns around Nice,
They will be thoroughly devastated by sea and by land:
The locusts by land and by sea the wind propitious,
Captured, dead, bound, pillaged without law of war.

C3Q83
The long hairs of Celtic Gaul
Accompanied by foreign nations,
They will make captives the people of Aquitaine,
For succumbing to their designs.
C3Q84
The great city will be thoroughly desolated,
Of the inhabitants not a single one will remain there:
Wall, sex, temple and virgin violated,
Through sword, fire, plague, cannon people will die.
C3Q85
The city taken through deceit and guile,
Taken in by means of a handsome youth:
Assault given by the Robine near the Aude,
He and all dead for having thoroughly deceived.
C3Q86
A chief of Ausonia will go to Spain
By sea, he will make a stop in Marseilles:
Before his death he will linger a long time:
After his death one will see a great marvel.
C3Q87
Gallic fleet, do not approach Corsica,
Less Sardinia, you will rue it:
Every one of you will die frustrated of the help of the cape:
You will swim in blood, captive you will not believe me.
C3Q88
From Barcelona a very great army by sea,
All Marseilles will tremble with terror:
Isles seized help shut off by sea,
Your traitor will swim on land.
C3Q89
At that time Cyprus will be frustrated
Of its relief by those of the Aegean Sea:
Old ones slaughtered: but by speeches and supplications
Their King seduced, Queen outraged more.
C3Q90
The great Satyr and Tiger of Hyrcania,
Gift presented to those of the Ocean:
A fleet's chief will set out from Carmania,
One who will take land at the Tyrren Phocaean.
C3Q91
The tree which had long been dead and withered,
In one night it will come to grow green again:
The Cronian King sick, Prince with club foot,
Feared by his enemies he will make his sail bound.
C3Q92
The world near the last period,
Saturn will come back again late:
Empire transferred towards the Dusky nation,
The eye plucked out by the Goshawk at Narbonne.
C3Q93
In Avignon the chief of the whole empire
will make a stop on the way to desolated Paris:
Tricast will hold the anger of Hannibal:
Lyons will be poorly consoled for the change.
C3Q94
For five hundred years more one will keep count of him
Who was the ornament of his time:
Then suddenly great light will he give,
He who for this century will render them very satisfied.
C3Q95
The law of More will be seen to decline:
After another much more seductive:
Dnieper first will come to give way:
Through gifts and tongue another more attractive.
C3Q96
The Chief of Fossano will have his throat cut
By the leader of the bloodhound and greyhound:
The deed executed by those of the Tarpeian Rock,
Saturn in Leo February 13.
C3Q97
New law to occupy the new land
Towards Syria, Judea and Palestine:
The great barbarian empire to decay,
Before the Moon completes it cycle.

C3Q98
Two royal brothers will wage war so fiercely
That between them the war will be so mortal
That both will occupy the strong places:
Their great quarrel will fill realm and life.
C3Q99
In the grassy fields of Alleins and Vernegues
Of the Luberon range near the Durance,
The conflict will be very sharp for both armies,
Mesopotamia will fail in France.
C3Q100
The last one honored amongst the Gauls,
Over the enemy man will he be victorious:
Force and land in a moment explored,
When the envious one will die from an arrow shot.
C4Q1
That of the remainder of blood unshed:
Venice demands that relief be given:
After having waited a very long time,
City delivered up at the first sound of the horn.
C4Q2
Because of death France will take to making a journey,
Fleet by sea, marching over the Pyrenees Mountains,
Spain in trouble, military people marching:
Some of the greatest Ladies carried off to France.
C4Q3
From Arras and Bourges many banners of Dusky Ones,
A greater number of Gascons to fight on foot,
Those along the RhÙne will bleed the Spanish:
Near the mountain where Sagunto sits.
C4Q4
The impotent Prince angry, complaints and quarrels,
Rape and pillage, by cocks and Africans:
Great it is by land, by sea infinite sails,
Italy alone will be chasing Celts.
C4Q5
Cross, peace, under one the divine word accomplished,
Spain and Gaul will be united together:
Great disaster near, and combat very bitter:
No heart will be so hardy as not to tremble.
C4Q6
By the new clothes after the find is made,
Malicious plot and machination:
First will die he who will prove it,
Color Venetian trap.
C4Q7
The minor son of the great and hated Prince,
He will have a great touch of leprosy at the age of twenty:
Of grief his mother will die very sad and emaciated,
And he will die where the loose flesh falls.
C4Q8
The great city by prompt and sudden assault
Surprised at night, guards interrupted:
The guards and watches of Saint-Quentin
Slaughtered, guards and the portals broken.
C4Q9
The chief of the army in the middle of the crowd
Will be wounded by an arrow shot in the thighs,
When Geneva in tears and distress
Will be betrayed by Lausanne and the Swiss.
C4Q10
The young Prince falsely accused
Will plunge the army into trouble and quarrels:
The chief murdered for his support,
Sceptre to pacify: then to cure scrofula.
C4Q11
He who will have the government of the great cope
Will be prevailed upon to perform several deeds:
The twelve red one who will come to soil the cloth,
Under murder, murder will come to be perpetrated.
C4Q12
The greater army put to flight in disorder,
Scarcely further will it be pursued:
Army reassembled and the legion reduced,
Then it will be chased out completely from the Gauls.

C4Q13
News of the greater loss reported,
The report will astonish the army:
Troops united against the revolted:
The double phalanx will abandon the great one.
C4Q14
The sudden death of the first personage
Will have caused a change and put another in the sovereignty:
Soon, late come so high and of low age,
Such by land and sea that it will be necessary to fear him.
C4Q15
From where they will think to make famine come,
From there will come the surfeit:
The eye of the sea through canine greed
For the one the other will give oil and wheat.
C4Q16
The city of liberty made servile:
Made the asylum of profligates and dreamers.
The King changed to them not so violent:
From one hundred become more than a thousand.
C4Q17
To change at Beaune, Nuits, Ch‚lon and Dijon,
The duke wishing to improve the Carmelite [nun]
Marching near the river, fish, diver's beak
Will see the tail: the gate will be locked.
C4Q18
Some of those most lettered in the celestial facts
Will be condemned by illiterate princes:
Punished by Edict, hunted, like criminals,
And put to death wherever they will be found.
C4Q19
Before Rouen the siege laid by the Insubrians,
By land and sea the passages shut up:
By Hainaut and Flanders, by Ghent and those of LiÈge
Through cloaked gifts they will ravage the shores.
C4Q20
Peace and plenty for a long time the place will praise:
Throughout his realm the fleur-de-lys deserted:
Bodies dead by water, land one will bring there,
Vainly awaiting the good fortune to be buried there.
C4Q21
The change will be very difficult:
City and province will gain by the change:
Heart high, prudent established, chased out one cunning,
Sea, land, people will change their state.
C4Q22
The great army will be chased out,
In one moment it will be needed by the King:
The faith promised from afar will be broken,
He will be seen naked in pitiful disorder.
C4Q23
The legion in the marine fleet
Will burn lime, loadstone sulfur and pitch:
The long rest in the secure place:
"Port Selyn" and Monaco, fire will consume them.
C4Q24
Beneath the holy earth of a soul the faint voice heard,
Human flame seen to shine as divine:
It will cause the earth to be stained with the blood of the monks,
And to destroy the holy temples for the impure ones.
C4Q25
Lofty bodies endlessly visible to the eye,
Through these reasons they will come to obscure:
Body, forehead included, sense and head invisible,
Diminishing the sacred prayers.
C4Q26
The great swarm of bees will arise,
Such that one will not know whence they have come;
By night the ambush, the sentinel under the vines
City delivered by five babblers not naked.




C4Q27
Salon, Tarascon, "Mausol", the arch of "SEX.",
Where the pyramid is still standing:
They will come to deliver the Prince of "Annemark,"
Redemption reviled in the temple of Artemis.
C4Q28
When Venus will be covered by the Sun,
Under the splendor will be a hidden form:
Mercury will have exposed them to the fire,
Through warlike noise it will be insulted.
C4Q29
The Sun hidden eclipsed by Mercury
Will be placed only second in the sky:
Of Vulcan Hermes will be made into food,
The Sun will be seen pure, glowing red and golden.
C4Q30
Eleven more times the Moon the Sun will not want,
All raised and lowered by degree:
And put so low that one will stitch little gold:
Such that after famine plague, the secret uncovered.
C4Q31
The Moon in the full of night over the high mountain,
The new sage with a lone brain sees it:
By his disciples invited to be immortal,
Eyes to the south. Hands in bosoms, bodies in the fire.
C4Q32
In the places and times of flesh giving way to fish,
The communal law will be made in opposition:
It will hold strongly the old ones, then removed from the midst,
Loving of Everything in Common put far behind.
C4Q33
Jupiter joined more to Venus than to the Moon
Appearing with white fulness:
Venus hidden under the whiteness of Neptune
Struck by Mars through the white stew.
C4Q34
The great one of the foreign land led captive,
Chained in gold offered to King "Chyren":
He who in Ausonia, Milan will lose the war,
And all his army put to fire and sword.
C4Q35
The fire put out the virgins will betray
The greater part of the new band:
Lightning in sword and lance the lone Kings will guard
Etruria and Corsica, by night throat cut.
C4Q36
The new sports set up again in Gaul,
After victory in the Insubrian campaign:
Mountains of Hesperia, the great ones tied and trussed up:
"Romania" and Spain to tremble with fear.
C4Q37
The Gaul will come to penetrate the mountains by leaps:
He will occupy the great place of Insubria:
His army to enter to the greatest depth,
Genoa and Monaco will drive back the red fleet.
C4Q38
While he will engross the Duke, King and Queen
With the captive Byzantine chief in Samothrace:
Before the assault one will eath the order:
Reverse side metaled will follow the trail of the blood.
C4Q39
The Rhodians will demand relief,
Through the neglect of its heirs abandoned.
The Arab empire will reveal its course,
The cause set right again by Hesperia.
C4Q40
The fortresses of the besieged shut up,
Through gunpowder sunk into the abyss:
The traitors will all be stowed away alive,
Never did such a pitiful schism happen to the sextons.
C4Q41
Female sex captive as a hostage
Will come by night to deceive the guards:
The chief of the army deceived by her language
Will abandon her to the people, it will be pitiful to see.
C4Q42
Geneva and Langres through those of Chartres and DÙle
And through Grenoble captive at MontÈlimar
Seyssel, Lausanne, through fraudulent deceit,
They will betray them for sixty marks of gold.
C4Q43
Arms will be heard clashing in the sky:
That very same year the divine ones enemies:
They will want unjustly to discuss the holy laws:
Through lightning and war the complacent one put to death.
C4Q44
Two large ones of Mende, of Rodez and Milhau
Cahors, Limoges, Castres bad week
By night the entry, from Bordeaux an insult
Through PÈrigord at the peal of the bell.
C4Q45
Through conflict a King will abandon his realm:
The greatest chief will fail in time of need:
Dead, ruined few will escape it,
All cut up, one will be a witness to it.
C4Q46
The fact well defended by excellence,
Guard yourself Tours from your near ruin:
London and Nantes will make a defense through Reims
Not passing further in the time of the drizzle.
C4Q47
The savage black one when he will have tried
His bloody hand at fire, sword and drawn bows:
All of his people will be terribly frightened,
Seeing the greatest ones hung by neck and feet.
C4Q48
The fertile, spacious Ausonian plain
Will produce so many gadflies and locusts,
The solar brightness will become clouded,
All devoured, great plague to come from them.
C4Q49
Before the people blood will be shed,
Only from the high heavens will it come far:
But for a long time of one nothing will be heard,
The spirit of a lone one will come to bear witness against it.
C4Q50
Libra will see the Hesperias govern,
Holding the monarchy of heaven and earth:
No one will see the forces of Asia perished,
Only seven hold the hierarchy in order.
C4Q51
A Duke eager to follow his enemy
Will enter within impeding the phalanx:
Hurried on foot they will come to pursue so closely
That the day will see a conflict near Ganges.
C4Q52
In the besieged city men and woman to the walls,
Enemies outside the chief ready to surrender:
The wind will be strongly against the troops,
They will be driven away through lime, dust and ashes.
C4Q53
The fugitives and exiles recalled:
Fathers and sons great garnishing of the deep wells:
The cruel father and his people choked:
His far worse son submerged in the well.
C4Q54
Of the name which no Gallic King ever had
Never was there so fearful a thunderbolt,
Italy, Spain and the English trembling,
Very attentive to a woman and foreigners.
C4Q55
When the crow on the tower made of brick
For seven hours will continue to scream:
Death foretold, the statue stained with blood,
Tyrant murdered, people praying to their Gods.
C4Q56
After the victory of the raving tongue,
The spirit tempered in tranquility and repose:
Throughout the conflict the bloody victor makes orations,
Roasting the tongue and the flesh and the bones.
C4Q57
Ignorant envy upheld before the great King,
He will propose forbidding the writings:
His wife not his wife tempted by another,
Twice two more neither skill nor cries.
C4Q58
To swallow the burning Sun in the throat,
The Etruscan land washed by human blood:
The chief pail of water, to lead his son away,
Captive lady conducted into Turkish land.
C4Q59
Two beset in burning fervor:
By thirst for two full cups extinguished,
The fort filed, and an old dreamer,
To the Genevans he will show the track from "Nira."
C4Q60
The seven children left in hostage,
The third will come to slaughter his child:
Because of his son two will be pierced by the point,
Genoa, Florence, he will come to confuse them.
C4Q61
The old one mocked and deprived of his place,
By the foreigner who will suborn him:
Hands of his son eaten before his face,
His brother to Chartres, OrlÈans Rouen will betray.
C4Q62
A colonel with ambition plots,
He will seize the greatest army,
Against his Prince false invention,
And he will be discovered under his arbor.
C4Q63
The Celtic army against the mountaineers,
Those who will be learned and able in bird-calling:
Peasants will soon work fresh presses,
All hurled on the sword's edge.
C4Q64
The transgressor in bourgeois garb,
He will come to try the King with his offense:
Fifteen soldiers for the most part bandits,
Last of life and chief of his fortune.
C4Q65
Towards the deserter of the great fortress,
After he will have abandoned his place,
His adversary will exhibit very great prowess,
The Emperor soon dead will be condemned.
C4Q66
Under the feigned color of seven shaven heads
Diverse spies will be scattered:
Wells and fountains sprinkled with poisons,
At the fort of Genoa devourers of men.
C4Q67
The year that Saturn and Mars are equal fiery,
The air very dry parched long meteor:
Through secret fires a great place blazing from burning heat,
Little rain, warm wind, wars, incursions.
C4Q68
In the place very near not far from Venus,
The two greatest ones of Asia and of Africa,
From the Rhine and Lower Danube they will be said to have come,
Cries, tears at Malta and the Ligurian side.
C4Q69
The exiles will hold the great city,
The citizens dead, murdered and driven out:
Those of Aquileia will promise Parma
To show them the entry through the untracked places.
C4Q70
Quite contiguous to the great Pyrenees mountains,
One to direct a great army against the Eagle:
Veins opened, forces exterminated,
As far as Pau will he come to chase the chief.




C4Q71
In place of the bride the daughters slaughtered,
Murder with great error no survivor to be:
Within the well vestals inundated,
The bride extinguished by a drink of Aconite.
C4Q72
Those of N˚äes through Agen and Lectoure
At Saint-FÈlix will hold their parliament:
Those of Bazas will come at the unhappy hour
To seize Condom and Marsan promptly.
C4Q73
The great nephew by force will test
The treaty made by the pusillanimous heart:
The Duke will try Ferrara and Asti,
When the pantomine will take place in the evening.
C4Q74
Those of lake Geneva and of M‚con:
All assembled against those of Aquitaine:
Many Germans many more Swiss,
They will be routed along with those of "Humane."
C4Q75
Ready to fight one will desert,
The chief adversary will obtain the victory:
The rear guard will make a defense,
The faltering ones dead in the white territory.
C4Q76
The people of Agen by those of PÈrigord
Will be vexed, holding as far as the RhÙne:
The union of Gascons and Bigorre
To betray the temple, the priest giving his sermon.
C4Q77
"Selin" monarch Italy peaceful,
Realms united by the Christian King of the World:
Dying he will want to lie in Blois soil,
After having chased the pirates from the sea.
C4Q78
The great army of the civil struggle,
By night Parma to the foreign one discovered,
Seventy-nine murdered in the town,
The foreigners all put to the sword.
C4Q79
Blood Royal flee, Monheurt, Mas, Aiguillon,
The Landes will be filled by Bordelais,
Navarre, Bigorre points and spurs,
Deep in hunger to devour acorns of the cork oak.
C4Q80
Near the great river, great ditch, earth drawn out,
In fifteen parts will the water be divided:
The city taken, fire, blood, cries, sad conflict,
And the greatest part involving the colosseum.
C4Q81
Promptly will one build a bridge of boats,
To pass the army of the great Belgian Prince:
Poured forth inside and not far from Brussels,
Passed beyond, seven cut up by pike.
C4Q82
A throng approaches coming from Slaconia,
The old Destroyer the city will ruin:
He will see his "Romania" quite desolated,
Then he will not know how to put out the great flame.
C4Q83
Combat by night the valiant captain
Conquered will flee few people conquered:
His people stirred up, sedition not in vain,
His own son will hold him besieged.
C4Q84
A great one of Auxerre will die very miserable,
Driven out by those who had been under him:
Put in chains, behind a strong cable,
In the year that Mars, Venus and Sun are in conjunction in summer.
C4Q85
The white coal will be chased by the black one,
Made prisoner led to the dung cart,
Moor Camel on twisted feet,
Then the younger one will blind the hobby falcon.
C4Q86
The year that Saturn will be conjoined in Aquarius
With the Sun, the very powerful King
Will be received and anointed at Reims and Aix,
After conquests he will murder the innocent.
C4Q87
A King's son learned in many languages,
Different from his senior in the realm:
His handsome father understood by the greater son,
He will cause his principal adherent to perish.
C4Q88
Anthony by name great by the filthy fact
Of Lousiness wasted to his end:
One who will want to be desirous of lead,
Passing the port he will be immersed by the elected one.
C4Q89
Thirty of London will conspire secretly
Against their King, the enterprise on the bridge:
He and his satellites will have a distaste for death,
A fair King elected, native of Frisia.
C4Q90
The two armies will be unable to unite at the walls,
In that instant Milan and Pavia to tremble:Hunger, thirst, doubt will come to plague them very strongly
They will not have a single morsel of meat, bread or victuals.
C4Q91
For the Gallic Duke compelled to fight in the duel,
The ship of Melilla will not approach Monaco,
Wrongly accused, perpetual prison,
His son will strive to reign before his death.
C4Q92
The head of the valiant captain cut off,
It will be thrown before his adversary:
His body hung on the sail-yard of the ship,
Confused it will flee by oars against the wind.
C4Q93
A serpent seen near the royal bed,
It will be by the lady at night the dogs will not bark:
Then to be born in France a Prince so royal,
Come from heaven all the Princes will see him.
C4Q94
Two great brothers will be chased out of Spain,
The elder conquered under the Pyrenees mountains:
The sea to redden, RhÙne, bloody Lake Geneva from Germany,
Narbonne, BÈziers contaminated by Agde.
C4Q95
The realm left to two they will hold it very briefly,
Three years and seven months passed by they will make war:
The two Vestals will rebel in opposition,
Victor the younger in the land of Brittany.
C4Q96
The elder sister of the British Isle
Will be born fifteen years before her brother,
Because of her promise procuring verification,
She will succeed to the kingdom of the balance.
C4Q97
The year that Mercury, Mars, Venus in retrogression,
The line of the great Monarch will not fail:
Elected by the Portuguese people near Cadiz,
One who will come to grow very old in peace and reign.
C4Q98
Those of Alba will pass into Rome,
By means of Langres the multitude muffled up,
Marquis and Duke will pardon no man,
Fire, blood, smallpox no water the crops to fail.
C4Q99
The valiant elder son of the King's daughter,
He will hurl back the Celts very far,
Such that he will cast thunderbolts, so many in such an array
Few and distant, then deep into the Hesperias.


C4Q100
From the celestial fire on the Royal edifice,
When the light of Mars will go out,
Seven months great war, people dead through evil
Rouen, Evreux the King will not fail.
C5Q1
Before the coming of Celtic ruin,
In the temple two will parley
Pike and dagger to the heart of one mounted on the steed,
They will bury the great one without making any noise.
C5Q2
Seven conspirators at the banquet will cause to flash
The iron out of the ship against the three:
One will have the two fleets brought to the great one,
When through the evil the latter shoots him in the forehead.
C5Q3
The successor to the Duchy will come,
Very far beyond the Tuscan Sea:
A Gallic branch will hold Florence,
The nautical Frog in its gyron be agreement.
C5Q4
The large mastiff expelled from the city
Will be vexed by the strange alliance,
After having chased the stag to the fields
The wolf and the Bear will defy each other.
C5Q5
Under the shadowy pretense of removing servitude,
He will himself usurp the people and city:
He will do worse because of the deceit of the young prostitute,
Delivered in the field reading the false poem.
C5Q6
The Augur putting his hand upon the head of the King
Will come to pray for the peace of Italy:
He will come to move the sceptre to his left hand,
From King he will become pacific Emperor.
C5Q7
The bones of the Triumvir will be found,
Looking for a deep enigmatic treasure:
Those from thereabouts will not be at rest,
Digging for this thing of marble and metallic lead.
C5Q8
There will be unleashed live fire, hidden death,
Horrible and frightful within the globes,
By night the city reduced to dust by the fleet,
The city afire, the enemy amenable.
C5Q9
The great arch demolished down to its base,
By the chief captive his friend forestalled,
He will be born of the lady with hairy forehead and face,
Then through cunning the Duke overtaken by death.
C5Q10
A Celtic chief wounded in the conflict
Seeing death overtaking his men near a cellar:
Pressed by blood and wounds and enemies,
And relief by four unknown ones.
C5Q11
The sea will not be passed over safely by those of the Sun,
Those of Venus will hold all Africa:
Saturn will no longer occupy their realm,
And the Asiatic part will change.
C5Q12
To near the Lake of Geneva will it be conducted,
By the foreign maiden wishing to betray the city:
Before its murder at Augsburg the great suite,
And those of the Rhine will come to invade it.
C5Q13
With great fury the Roman Belgian King
Will want to vex the barbarian with his phalanx:
Fury gnashing, he will chase the African people
From the Pannonias to the pillars of Hercules.




C5Q14
Saturn and Mars in Leo Spain captive,
By the African chief trapped in the conflict,
Near Malta, "Herodde" taken alive,
And the Roman sceptre will be struck down by the Cock.
C5Q15
The great Pontiff taken captive while navigating,
The great one thereafter to fail the clergy in tumult:
Second one elected absent his estate declines,
His favorite bastard to death broken on the wheel.
C5Q16
The Sabaean tear no longer at its high price,
Turning human flesh into ashes through death,
At the isle of Pharos disturbed by the Crusaders,
When at Rhodes will appear a hard phantom.
C5Q17
By night the King passing near an Alley,
He of Cyprus and the principal guard:
The King mistaken, the hand flees the length of the RhÙne,
The conspirators will set out to put him to death.
C5Q18
The unhappy abandoned one will die of grief,
His conqueress will celebrate the hecatomb:
Pristine law, free edict drawn up,
The wall and the Prince falls on the seventh day.
C5Q19
The great Royal one of gold, augmented by brass,
The agreement broken, war opened by a young man:
People afflicted because of a lamented chief,
The land will be covered with barbarian blood.
C5Q20
The great army will pass beyond the Alps,
Shortly before will be born a monster scoundrel:
Prodigious and sudden he will turn
The great Tuscan to his nearest place.
C5Q21
By the death of the Latin Monarch,
Those whom he will have assisted through his reign:
The fire will light up again the booty divided,
Public death for the bold ones who incurred it.
C5Q22
Before the great one has given up the ghost at Rome,
Great terror for the foreign army:
The ambush by squadrons near Parma,
Then the two red ones will celebrate together.
C5Q23
The two contented ones will be united together,
When for the most part they will be conjoined with Mars:
The great one of Africa trembles in terror,
Duumvirate disjoined by the fleet.
C5Q24
The realm and law raised under Venus,
Saturn will have dominion over Jupiter:
The law and realm raised by the Sun,
Through those of Saturn it will suffer the worst.
C5Q25
The Arab Prince Mars, Sun, Venus, Leo,
The rule of the Church will succumb by sea:
Towards Persia very nearly a million men,
The true serpent will invade Byzantium and Egypt.
C5Q26
The slavish people through luck in war
Will become elevated to a very high degree:
They will change their Prince, one born a provincial,
An army raised in the mountains to pass over the sea.
C5Q27
Through fire and arms not far from the Black Sea,
He will come from Persia to occupy Trebizond:
Pharos, Mytilene to tremble, the Sun joyful,
The Adriatic Sea covered with Arab blood.
C5Q28
His arm hung and leg bound,
Face pale, dagger hidden in his bosom,
Three who will be sworn in the fray
Against the great one of Genoa will the steel be unleashed.

C5Q29
Liberty will not be recovered,
A proud, villainous, wicked black one will occupy it,
When the matter of the bridge will be opened,
The republic of Venice vexed by the Danube.
C5Q30
All around the great city
Soldiers will be lodged throughout the fields and towns:
To give the assault Paris, Rome incited,
Then upon the bridge great pillage will be carried out.
C5Q31
Through the Attic land fountain of wisdom,
At present the rose of the world:
The bridge ruined, and its great pre-eminence
Will be subjected, a wreck amidst the waves.
C5Q32
Where all is good, the Sun all beneficial and the Moon
Is abundant, its ruin approaches:
From the sky it advances to change your fortune.
In the same state as the seventh rock.
C5Q33
Of the principal ones of the city in rebellion
Who will strive mightily to recover their liberty:
The males cut up, unhappy fray,
Cries, groans at Nantes pitiful to see.
C5Q34
From the deepest part of the English West
Where the head of the British isle is
A fleet will enter the Gironde through Blois,
Through wine and salt, fires hidden in the casks.
C5Q35
For the free city of the great Crescent sea,
Which still carries the stone in its stomach,
The English fleet will come under the drizzle
To seize a branch, war opened by the great one.
C5Q36
The sister's brother through the quarrel and deceit
Will come to mix dew in the mineral:
On the cake given to the slow old woman,
She dies tasting it she will be simple and rustic.
C5Q37
Three hundred will be in accord with one will
To come to the execution of their blow,
Twenty months after all memory
Their king betrayed simulating feigned hate.
C5Q38
He who will succeed the great monarch on his death
Will lead an illicit and wanton life:
Through nonchalance he will give way to all,
So that in the end the Salic law will fail.
C5Q39
Issued from the true branch of the fleur-de-lys,
Placed and lodged as heir of Etruria:
His ancient blood woven by long hand,
He will cause the escutcheon of Florence to bloom.
C5Q40
The blood royal will be so very mixed,
Gauls will be constrained by Hesperia:
One will wait until his term has expired,
And until the memory of his voice has perished.
C5Q41
Born in the shadows and during a dark day,
He will be sovereign in realm and goodness:
He will cause his blood to rise again in the ancient urn,
Renewing the age of gold for that of brass.
C5Q42
Mars raised to his highest belfry
Will cause the Savoyards to withdraw from France:
The Lombard people will cause very great terror
To those of the Eagle included under the Balance.
C5Q43
The great ruin of the holy things is not far off,
Provence, Naples, Sicily, SÈes and Pons:
In Germany, at the Rhine and Cologne,
Vexed to death by all those of Mainz.

C5Q44
On sea the red one will be taken by pirates,
Because of him peace will be troubled:
Anger and greed will he expse through a false act,
The army doubled by the great Pontiff.
C5Q45
The great Empire will soon be desolated
And transferred to near the Ardennes:
The two bastards beheaded by the oldest one,
And Bronzebeard the hawk-nose will reign.
C5Q46
Quarrels and new schism by the red hats
When the Sabine will have been elected:
They will produce great sophism against him,
And Rome will be injured by those of Alba.
C5Q47
The great Arab will march far forward,
He will be betrayed by the Byzantinians:
Ancient Rhodes will come to meet him,
And greater harm through the Austrian Hungarians.
C5Q48
After the great affliction of the sceptre,
Two enemies will be defeated by them:
A fleet from Africa will appear before the Hungarians,
By land and sea horrible deeds will take place.
C5Q49
Not from Spain but from ancient France
Will one be elected for the trembling bark,
To the enemy will a promise be made,
He who will cause a cruel plague in his realm.
C5Q50
The year that the brothers of the lily come of age,
One of them will hold the great "Romania":
The mountains to tremble, Latin passage opened,
Agreement to march against the fort of Armenia.
C5Q51
The people of Dacia, England, Poland
And of Bohemia will make a new league:
To pass beyond the pillars of Hercules,
The Barcelonans and Tuscans will prepare a cruel plot.
C5Q52
There will be a King who will give opposition,
The exiles raised over the realm:
The pure poor people to swim in blood,
And for a long time will he flourish under such a device.
C5Q53
The law of the Sun and of Venus in strife,
Appropriating the spirit of prophecy:
Neither the one nor the other will be understood,
The law of the great Messiah will hold through the Sun.
C5Q54
From beyond the Black Sea and great Tartary,
There will be a King who will come to see Gaul,
He will pierce through "Alania" and Armenia,
And within Byzantium will he leave his bloody rod.
C5Q55
In the country of Arabia Felix
There will be born one powerful in the law of Mahomet:
To vex Spain, to conquer Grenada,
And more by sea against the Ligurian people.
C5Q56
Through the death of the very old Pontiff
A Roman of good age will be elected,
Of him it will be said that he weakens his see,
But long will he sit and in biting activity.
C5Q57
There will go from Mont Gaussier and "Aventin,"
One who through the hole will warn the army:
Between two rocks will the booty be taken,
Of Sectus' mausoleum the renown to fail.
C5Q58
By the aqueduct of UzËs over the Gard,
Through the forest and inaccessible mountain,
In the middle of the bridge there will be cut in the fist
The chief of N˚äes who will be very terrible.

C5Q59
Too long a stay for the English chief at N˚äes,
Towards Spain Redbeard to the rescue:
Many will die by war opened that day,
When a bearded star will fall in Artois.
C5Q60
By the shaven head a very bad choice will come to be made,
Overburdened he will not pass the gate:
He will speak with such great fury and rage,
That to fire and blood he will consign the entire sex.
C5Q61
The child of the great one not by his birth,
He will subjugate the high Apenine mountains:
He will cause all those of the balance to tremble,
And from the Pyrenees to Mont Cenis.
C5Q62
One will see blood to rain on the rocks,
Sun in the East, Saturn in the West:
Near Orgon war, at Rome great evil to be seen,
Ships sunk to the bottom, and the Tridental taken.
C5Q63
From the vain enterprise honor and undue complaint,
Boats tossed about among the Latins, cold, hunger, waves
Not far from the Tiber the land stained with blood,
And diverse plagues will be upon mankind.
C5Q64
Those assembled by the tranquility of the great number,
By land and sea counsel countermanded:
Near "Antonne" Genoa, Nice in the shadow
Through fields and towns in revolt against the chief.
C5Q65
Come suddenly the terror will be great,
Hidden by the principal ones of the affair:
And the lady on the charcoal will no longer be in sight,
Thus little by little will the great ones be angered.
C5Q66
Under the ancient vestal edifices,
Not far from the ruined aqueduct:
The glittering metals are of the Sun and Moon,
The lamp of Trajan engraved with gold burning.
C5Q67
When the chief of Perugia will not venture his tunic
Sense under cover to strip himself quite naked:
Seven will be taken Aristocratic deed,
Father and son dead through a point in the collar.
C5Q68
In the Danube and of the Rhine will come to drink
The great Camel, not repenting it:
Those of the RhÙne to tremble, and much more so those of the Loire,
and near the Alps the Cock will ruin him.
C5Q69
No longer will the great one be in his false sleep,
Uneasiness will come to replace tranquility:
A phalanx of gold, azure and vermilion arrayed
To subjugate Africa and gnaw it to the bone,
C5Q70
Of the regions subject to the Balance,
They will trouble the mountains with great war,
Captives the entire sex enthralled and all Byzantium,
So that at dawn they will spread the news from land to land.
C5Q71
By the fury of one who will wait for the water,
By his great rage the entire army moved:
Seventeen boats loaded with the noble,
The messenger come late along the RhÙne.
C5Q72
For the pleasure of the voluptuous edict,
One will mix poison in the faith:
Venus will be in a course so virtuous
As to becloud the whole quality of the Sun.



C5Q73
The Church of God will be persecuted,
And the holy Temples will be plundered,
The child will put his mother out in her shift,
Arabs will be allied with the Poles.
C5Q74
Of Trojan blood will be born a Germanic heart
Who will rise to very high power:
He will drive out the foreign Arabic people,
Returning the Church to its pristine pre-eminence.
C5Q75
He will rise high over the estate more to the right,
He will remain seated on the square stone,
Towards the south facing to his left,
The crooked staff in his hand his mouth sealed.
C5Q76
In a free place will he pitch his tent,
And he will not want to lodge in the cities:
Aix, Carpentras, L'Isle, Vaucluse "Mont," Cavaillon,
Throughout all these places will he abolish his trace.
C5Q77
All degrees of Ecclesiastical honor
Will be changed to that of Jupitor and Quirinus:
The priest of Quirinus to one of Mars,
Then a King of France will make him one of Vulcan.
C5Q78
The two will not be united for very long,
And in thirteen years to the Barbarian Satrap:
On both sides they will cause such loss
That one will bless the Bark and its cope.
C5Q79
The sacred pomp will come to lower its wings,
Through the coming of the great legislator:
He will raise the humble, he will vex the rebels,
His like will not appear on this earth.
C5Q80
Ogmios will approach great Byzantium,
The Barbaric League will be driven out:
Of the two laws the heathen one will give way,
Barbarian and Frank in perpetual strife.
C5Q81
The royal bird over the city of the Sun,
Seven months in advance it will deliver a nocturnal omen:
The Eastern wall will fall lightning thunder,
Seven days the enemies directly to the gates.
C5Q82
At the conclusion of the treaty outside the fortress
Will not go he who is placed in despair:
When those of Arbois, of Langres against Bresse
Will have the mountains of DÙle an enemy ambush.
C5Q83
Those who will have undertaken to subvert,
An unparalleled realm, powerful and invincible:
They will act through deceit, nights three to warn,
When the greatest one will read his Bible at the table.
C5Q84
He will be born of the gulf and unmeasured city,
Born of obscure and dark family:
He who the revered power of the great King
Will want to destroy through Rouen and Evreux.
C5Q85
Through the Suevi and neighboring places,
They will be at war over the clouds:
Swarm of marine locusts and gnats,
The faults of Geneva will be laid quite bare.
C5Q86
Divided by the two heads and three arms,
The great city will be vexed by waters:
Some great ones among them led astray in exile,
Byzantium hard pressed by the head of Persia.
C5Q87
The year that Saturn is out of bondage,
In the Frank land he will be inundated by water:
Of Trojan blood will his marriage be,
And he will be confined safely be the Spaniards.

C5Q88
Through a frightful flood upon the sand,
A marine monster from other seas found:
Near the place will be made a refuge,
Holding Savona the slave of Turin.
C5Q89
Into Hungary through Bohemia, Navarre,
and under that banner holy insurrections:
By the fleur-de-lys legion carrying the bar,
Against OrlÈans they will cause disturbances.
C5Q90
In the Cyclades, in Perinthus and Larissa,
In Sparta and the entire Pelopennesus:
Very great famine, plague through false dust,
Nine months will it last and throughout the entire peninsula.
C5Q91
At the market that they call that of liars,
Of the entire Torrent and field of Athens:
They will be surprised by the light horses,
By those of Alba when Mars is in Leo and Saturn in Aquarius.
C5Q92
After the see has been held seventeen years,
Five will change within the same period of time:
Then one will be elected at the same time,
One who will not be too contormable to the Romans.
C5Q93
Under the land of the round lunar globe,
When Mercury will be dominating:
The isle of Scotland will produce a luminary,
One who will put the English into confusion.
C5Q94
He will transfer into great Germany
Brabant and Flanders, Ghent, Bruges and Boulogne:
The truce feigned, the great Duke of Armenia
Will assail Vienna and Cologne.
C5Q95
The nautical oar will tempt the shadows,
Then it will come to stir up the great Empire:
In the Aegean Sea the impediments of wood
Obstructing the diverted Tyrrhenian Sea.
C5Q96
The rose upon the middle of the great world,
For new deeds public shedding of blood:
To speak the truth, one will have a closed mouth,
Then at the time of need the awaited one will come late.
C5Q97
The one born deformed suffocated in horror,
In the habitable city of the great King:
The severe edict of the captives revoked,
Hail and thunder, Condom inestimable.
C5Q98
At the forty-eigth climacteric degree,
At the end of Cancer very great dryness:
Fish in sea, river, lake boiled hectic,
BÈarn, Bigorre in distress through fire from the sky.
C5Q99
Milan, Ferrara, Turin and Aquileia,
Capua, Brindisi vexed by the Celtic nation:
By the Lion and his eagles's phalanx,
When the old British chief Rome will have.
C5Q100
The incendiary trapped in his own fire,
Of fire from the sky at Carcassonne and the Comminges:
Foix, Auch, MazËres, the high old man escaped,
Through those of Hesse and Thuringia, and some Saxons.
C6Q1
Around the Pyrenees mountains a great throng
Of foreign people to aid the new King:
Near the great temple of Le Mas by the Garonne,
A Roman chief will fear him in the water.




C6Q2
In the year five hundred eighty more or less,
One will await a very strange century:
In the year seven hundred and three the heavens witness thereof,
That several kingdoms one to five will make a change.
C6Q3
The river that tries the new Celtic heir
Will be in great discord with the Empire:
The young Prince through the ecclesiastical people
Will remove the sceptre of the crown of concord.
C6Q4
The Celtic river will change its course,
No longer will it include the city of Agrippina:
All changed except the old language,
Saturn, Leo, Mars, Cancer in plunder.
C6Q5
Very great famine through pestiferous wave,
Through long rain the length of the arctic pole:
"Samarobryn" one hundred leagues from the hemisphere,
The will live without law exempt from politics.
C6Q6
There will appear towards the North
Not far from Cancer the bearded star:
Susa, Siena, Boeotia, Eretria,
The great one of Rome will die, the night over.
C6Q7
Norway and Dacia and the British Isle
Will be vexed by the united brothers:
The Roman chief sprung from Gallic blood
And his forces hurled back into the forests.
C6Q8
Those who were in the realm for knowledge
Will become impoverished at the change of King:
Some exiled without support, having no gold,
The lettered and letters will not be at a high premium.
C6Q9
In the sacred temples scandals will be perpetrated,
They will be reckoned as honors and commendations:
Of one of whom they engrave medals of silver and of gold,
The end will be in very strange torments.
C6Q10
In a short time the temples with colors
Of white and black of the two intermixed:
Red and yellow ones will carry off theirs from them,
Blood, land, plague, famine, fire extinguished by water.
C6Q11
The seven branches will be reduced to three,
The elder ones will be surprised by death,
The two will be seduced to fratricide,
The conspirators will be dead while sleeping.
C6Q12
To raise forces to ascend to the empire
In the Vatican the Royal blood will hold fast:
Flemings, English, Spain with "Aspire"
Against Italy and France will he contend.
C6Q13
A doubtful one will not come far from the realm,
The greater part will want to uphold him:
A Capitol will not want him to reign at all,
He will be unable to bear his great burden.
C6Q14
Far from his land a King will lose the battle,
At once escaped, pursued, then captured,
Ignorant one taken under the golden mail,
Under false garb, and the enemy surprised.
C6Q15
Under the tomb will be found a Prince
Who will be valued above Nuremberg:
The Spanish King in Capricorn thin,
Deceived and betrayed by the great Wittenberg.
C6Q16
That which will be carried off by the young Hawk,
By the Normans of France and Picardy:
The black ones of the temple of the Black Forest place
Will make an inn and fire of Lombardy.
C6Q17
After the files the ass-drivers burned,
They will be obliged to change diverse garbs:
Those of Saturn burned by the millers,
Except the greater part which will not be covered.
C6Q18
The great King abandoned by the Physicians,
By fate not the Jew's art he remains alive,
He and his kindred pushed high in the realm,
Pardon given to the race which denies Christ.
C6Q19
The true flame will devour the lady
Who will want to put the Innocent Ones to the fire:
Before the assault the army is inflamed,
When in Seville a monster in beef will be seen.
C6Q20
The feigned union will be of short duration,
Some changed most reformed:
In the vessels people will be in suffering,
Then Rome will have a new Leopard.
C6Q21
When those of the arctic pole are united together,
Great terror and fear in the East:
Newly elected, the great trembling supported,
Rhodes, Byzantium stained with Barbarian blood.
C6Q22
Within the land of the great heavenly temple,
Nephew murdered at London through feigned peace:
The bark will then become schismatic,
Sham liberty will be proclaimed everywhere.
C6Q23
Coins depreciated by the spirit of the realm,
And people will be stirred up against their King:
New peace made, holy laws become worse,
Paris was never in so severe an array.
C6Q24
Mars and the sceptre will be found conjoined
Under Cancer calamitous war:
Shortly afterwards a new King will be anounted,
One who for a long time will pacify the earth.
C6Q25
Through adverse Mars will the monarchy
Of the great fisherman be in ruinous trouble:
The young red black one will seize the hierarchy,
The traitors will act on a day of drizzle.
C6Q26
For four years the see will be held with some little good,
One libidinous in life will succeed to it:
Ravenna, Pisa and Verona will give support,
Longing to elevate the Papal cross.
C6Q27
Within the Isles of five rivers to one,
Through the expansion of the great "Chyren Selin":
Through the drizzles in the air the fury of one,
Six escaped, hidden bundles of flax.
C6Q28
The great Celt will enter Rome,
Leading a throng of the exiled and banished:
The great Pastor will put to death every man
Who was united at the Alps for the cock.
C6Q29
The saintly widow hearing the news,
Of her offspring placed in perplexity and trouble:
He who will be instructed to appease the quarrels,
He will pile them up by his pursuit of the shaven heads.
C6Q30
Through the appearance of the feigned sanctity,
The siege will be betrayed to the enemies:
In the night when they trusted to sleep in safety,
Near Brabant will march those of LiËge.
C6Q31
The King will find that which he desired so much
When the Prelate will be blamed unjustly:
His reply to the Duke will leave him dissatisfied,
He who in Milan will put several to death.

C6Q32
Beaten to death by rods for treason,
Captured he will be overcome through his disorder:
Frivolous counsel held out to the great captive,
When "Berich" will come to bite his nose in fury.
C6Q33
His last hand through "Alus" sanguinary,
He will be unable to protect himself by sea:
Between two rivers he will fear the military hand,
The black and irate one will make him rue it.
C6Q34
The device of flying fire
Will come to trouble the great besieged chief:
Within there will be such sedition
That the profligate ones will be in despair.
C6Q35
Near the Bear and close to the white wool,
Aries, Taurus, Cancer, Leo, Virgo,
Mars, Jupiter, the Sun will burn a great plain,
Woods and cities letters hidden in the candle.
C6Q36
Neither good nor evil through terrestrial battle
Will reach the confines of Perugia,
Pisa to rebel, Florence to see an evil existence,
King by night wounded on a mule with black housing.
C6Q37
The ancient work will be finished,
Evil ruin will fall upon the great one from the roof:
Dead they will accuse an innocent one of the deed,
The guilty one hidden in the copse in the drizzle.
C6Q38
The enemies of peace to the profligates,
After having conquered Italy:
The bloodthirsty black one, red, will be exposed,
Fire, blood shed, water colored by blood.
C6Q39
The child of the realm through the capture of his father
Will be plundered to deliver him:
Near the Lake of Perugia the azure captive,
The hostage troop to become far too drunk.
C6Q40
To quench the great thirst the great one of Mainz
Will be deprived of his great dignity:
Those of Cologne will come to complain so loudly
That the great rump will be thrown into the Rhine.
C6Q41
The second chief of the realm of "Annemark,"
Through those of Frisia and of the British Isle,
Will spend more than one hundred thousand marks,
Exploiting in vain the voyage to Italy.
C6Q42
To Ogmios will be left the realm
Of the great "Selin," who will in fact do more:
Throughout Italy will he extend his banner,
He will be ruled by a prudent deformed one.
C6Q43
For a long time will she remain uninhabited,
Around where the Seine and the Marne she comes to water:
Tried by the Thames and warriors,
The guards deceived in trusting in the repulse.
C6Q44
By night the Rainbow will appear for Nantes,
By marine arts they will stir up rain:
In the Gulf of Arabia a great fleet will plunge to the bottom,
In Saxony a monster will be born of a bear and a sow.
C6Q45
The very learned governor of the realm,
Not wishing to consent to the royal deed:
The fleet at Melilla through contrary wind
Will deliver him to his most disloyal one.
C6Q46
A just one will be sent back again into exile,
Through pestilence to the confines of "Nonseggle,"
His reply to the red one will cause him to be misled,
The King withdrawing to the Frog and the Eagle.
C6Q47
The two great ones assembled between two mountains
Will abandon their secret quarrel:
Brussels and DÙle overcome by Langres,
To execute their plague at Malines.
C6Q48
The too false and seductive sanctity,
Accompanied by an eloquent tongue:
The old city, and Parma too premature,
Florence and Siena they will render more desert.
C6Q49
The great Pontiff of the party of Mars
Will subjugate the confines of the Danube:
The cross to pursue, through sword hook or crook,
Captives, gold, jewels more than one hundred thousand rubies.
C6Q50
Within the pit will be found the bones,
Incest will be commited by the stepmother:
The state changed, they will demand fame and praise,
And they will have Mars attending as their star.
C6Q51
People assembled to see a new spectacle,
Princes and Kings amongst many bystanders,
Pillars walls to fall: but as by a miracle
The King saved and thirty of the ones present.
C6Q52
In place of the great one who will be condemned,
Outside the prison, his friend in his place:
The Trojan hope in six months joined, born dead,
The Sun in the urn rivers will be frozen.
C6Q53
The great Celtic Prelate suspected by the King,
By night in flight he will leave the realm:
Through a Duke fruitful for his great British King,
Byzantium to Cyprus and Tunis unsuspected.
C6Q54
At daybreak at the second crowing of the cock,
Those of Tunis, of Fez and of Bougie,
By the Arabs the King of Morocco captured,
The year sixteen hundred and seven, of the Liturgy.
C6Q55
By the appeased Duke in drawing up the contract,
Arabesque sail seen, sudden discovery:
Tripolis, Chios, and those of Trebizond,
Duke captured, the Black Sea and the city a desert.
C6Q56
The dreaded army of the Narbonne enemy
Will frighten very greatly the "Hesperians":
Perpignan empty through the blind one of Arbon,
Then Barcelona by sea will take up the quarrel.
C6Q57
He who was well forward in the realm,
Having a red chief close to the hierarchy,
Harsh and cruel, and he will make himself much feared,
He will succeed to the sacred monarchy.
C6Q58
Between the two distant monarchs,
When the clear Sun is lost through "Selin":
Great enmity between two indignant ones,
So that liberty is restored to the Isles and Siena.
C6Q59
The Lady in fury through rage of adultery,
She will come to conspire not to tell her Prince:
But soon will the blame be made known,
So that seventeen will be put to martyrdom.
C6Q60
The Prince outside his Celtic land
Will be betrayed, deceived by the interpreter:
Rouen, La Rochelle through those of Brittany
At the port of Blaye deceived by monk and priest.
C6Q61
The great carpet folded will not show
But by halved the greatest part of history:
Driven far out of the realm he will appear harsh,
So that everyone will come to believe in his warlike deed.
C6Q62
Too late both the flowers will be lost,
The serpent will not want to act against the law:
The forces of the Leaguers confounded by the French,
Savona, Albenga through Monaco great martyrdom.
C6Q63
The lady left alone in the realm
By the unique one extinmguished first on the bed of honor:
Seven years will she be weeping in grief,
Then with great good fortune for the realm long life.
C6Q64
No peace agreed upon will be kept,
All the subscribers will act with deceit:
In peace and truce, land and sea in protest,
By Barcelona fleet seized with ingenuity.
C6Q65
Gray and brown in half-opened war,
By night they will be assaulted and pillaged:
The brown captured will pass through the lock,
His temple opened, two slipped in the plaster.
C6Q66
At the foundation of the new sect,
The bones of the great Roman will be found,
A sepulchre covered by marble will appear,
Earth to quake in April poorly buried.
C6Q67
Quite another one will attain to the great Empire,
Kindness distant more so happiness:
Ruled by one sprung not far from the brothel,
Realms to decay great bad luck.
C6Q68
When the soldiers in a seditious fury
Will cause steel to flash by night against their chief:
The enemy Alba acts with furious hand,
Then to vex Rome and seduce the principal ones.
C6Q69
The great pity will occur before long,
Those who gave will be obliged to take:
Naked, starving, withstanding cold and thirst,
To pass over the mountains commiting a great scandal.
C6Q70
Chief of the world will the great "Chyren" be,
Plus Ultra behind, loved, feared, dreaded:
His fame and praise will go beyond the heavens,
And with the sole title of Victor will he be quite satisfied.
C6Q71
When they will come to give the last rites to the great King
Before he has entirely given up the ghost:
He who will come to grieve over him the least,
Through Lions, Eagles, cross crown sold.
C6Q72
Through feigned fury of divine emotion
The wife of the great one will be violated:
The judges wishing to condemn such a doctrine,
She is sacrificed a victim to the ignorant people.
C6Q73
In a great city a monk and artisan,
Lodged near the gate and walls,
Secret speaking emptily against Modena,
Betrayed for acting under the guise of nuptials.
C6Q74
She chased out will return to the realm,
Her enemies found to be conspirators:
More than ever her time will triumph,
Three and seventy to death very sure.
C6Q75
The great Pilot will be commissioned by the King,
To leave the fleet to fill a higher post:
Seven years after he will be in rebellion,
Venice will come to fear the Barbarian army.
C6Q76
The ancient city the creation of Antenor,
Being no longer ablke to bear the tyrant:
The feigned handle in the temple to cut a throat,
The people will come to put his followers to death.

C6Q77
Through the fraudulent victory of the deceived,
Two fleets one, German revolt:
The chief murdered and his son in the tent,
Florence and Imola pursued into "Romania".
C6Q78
To proclaim the victory of the great expanding "Selin:"
By the Romans will the Eagle be demanded,
Pavia, Milan and Genoa will not consent thereto,
Then by themselves the great Lord claimed.
C6Q79
Near the Ticino the inhabitants of the Loire,
Garonne and SaÙne, the Seine, the Tain and Gironde:
They will erect a promontory beyond the mountains,
Conflict given, Po enlarged, submerged in the wave.
C6Q80
From Fez the realm will reach those of Europe,
Their city ablaze and the blade will cut:
The great one of Asia by land and sea with great troop,
So that blues and perses the cross will pursue to death.
C6Q81
Tears, cries and laments, howls, terror,
Heart inhuman, cruel, black and chilly:
Lake of Geneva the Isles, of Genoa the notables,
Blood to pour out, wheat famine to none mercy.
C6Q82
Through the deserts of the free and wild place,
The nephew of the great Pontiff will come to wander:
Felled by seven with a heavy club,
By those who afterwards will occupy the Chalice.
C6Q83
He who will have so much honor and flattery
At his entry into Belgian Gaul:
A while after he will act very rudely,
And he will act very warlike against the flower.
C6Q84
The Lame One, he who lame could not reign in Sparta,
He will do much through seductive means:
So that by the short and long, he will be accused
Of making his perspective against the King.
C6Q85
The great city of Tarsus by the Gauls
Will be destroyed, all of the Turban captives:
Help by sea from the great one of Portugal,
First day of summer Urban's consecration.
C6Q86
The great Prelate one day after his dream,
Interpreted opposite to its meaning:
From Gascony a monk will come unexpectedly,
One who will cause the great prelate of Sens to be elected.
C6Q87
The election made in Frankfort
Will be voided, Milan will be opposed:
The follower closer will seem so very strong
That he will drive him out into the marshes beyond the Rhine.
C6Q88
A great realm will be left desolated,
Near the Ebro an assembly will be formed:
The Pyrenees mountains will console him,
When in May lands will be trembling.
C6Q89
Feet and hands bound between two boats,
Face anointed with honey, and sustained with milk:
Wasps and flies, paternal love vexed,
Cup-bearer to falsify, Chalice tried.
C6Q90
The stinking abominable disgrace,
After the deed he will be congratulated:
The great excuse for not being favorable,
That Neptune will not be persuaded to peace.
C6Q91
Of the leader of the naval war,
Red one unbridled, severe, horrible whim,
Captive escaped from the elder one in the bale,
When there will be born a sone to the great Agrippa.
C6Q92
Prince of beauty so comely,
Around his head a plot, the second deed betrayed:
The city to the sword in dust the face burnt,
Through too great murder the head of the King hated.
C6Q93
The greedy prelate deceived by ambition,
He will come to reckong nothing too much for him:
He and his messengers completely trapped,
He who cut the wood sees all in reverse.
C6Q94
A King will be angry with the see-breakers,
When arms of war will be prohibited:
The poison tainted in the sugar for the strawberries,
Murdered by waters, dead, saying land, land.
C6Q95
Calumny against the cadet by the detractor,
When enormous and warlike deeds will take place:
The least part doubtful for the elder one,
And soon in the realm there will be partisan deeds.
C6Q96
Great city abandoned to the soldiers,
Never was mortal tumult so close to it:
Oh, what a hideous calamity draws near,
Except one offense nothing will be spared it.
C6Q97
At forty-five degrees the sky will burn,
Fire to approach the great new city:
In an instant a great scattered flame will leap up,
When one will want to demand proof of the Normans.
C6Q98
Ruin for the Volcae so very terrible with fear,
Their great city stained, pestilential deed:
To plunder Sun and Moon and to violate their temples:
And to redden the two rivers flowing with blood.
C6Q99
The learned enemy will find himself confused,
His great army sick, and defeated by ambushes,
The Pyrenees and Pennine Alps will be denied him,
Discovering near the river ancient jugs.
C6Q100
Let those who read this verse consider it profoundly,
Let the profane and ignorant herd keep away;
And far away all Astrologers, Idiots and Barbarians,
May he who does otherwise be subject to the sacred rite.
C7Q1
The arc of the treasure deceived by Achilles,
the quadrangule known to the procreators.
The invention will be known by the Royal deed;
a corpse seen hanging in the sight of the populace.
C7Q2
Arles opened up by war will not offer resistance,
the soldiers will be astonished by night.
Black and white concealing indigo on land
under the false shadow you will see traitors sounded.
C7Q3
After the naval victory of France,
the people of Barcelona the Saillinons and those of Marseilles;
the robber of gold, the anvil enclosed in the the ball,
the people of Ptolon will be party to the fraud.
C7Q4
The Duke of Langres besieged at DÙle
accompanied by people from Autun and Lyons.
Geneva, Augsburg allied to those of Mirandola,
to cross the mountains against the people of Ancona.
C7Q5
Some of the wine on the table will be spilt,
the third will not have that which he claimed.
Twice descended from the black one of Parma,
Perouse will do to Pisa that which he believed.
C7Q6
Naples, Palerma and all of Sicily
will be uninhabited through Barbarian hands.
Corsica, Salerno and the island of Sardinia,
hunger, plague, war the end of extended evils.
C7Q7
Upon the struggle of the great light horses,
it will be claimed that the great crescent is destroyed.
To kill by night, in the mountains,
dressed in shephers' clothing, red gulfs in the deep ditch.
C7Q8
Florense, flee, flee the nearest Roman,
at Fiesole will be conflict given:
blood shed, the greatest one take by the hand,
neither tample nor sex will be pardoned.
C7Q9
The lady in the absence of her great master
will be begged for love by the Viceroy.
Feigned promise and misfortune in love,
in the hands of the great Prince of Bar.
C7Q10
By the great Prince bordering le Mans,
brave and valliant leader of the great army;
by land and sea with Bretons and Normans,
to pass Gibraltar and Barcelona to pillage the island.
C7Q11
The royal child will scorn his mother,
eye, feet wounded rude disobedient;
strange and very bitter news to the lady;
more than five hundred of here people will be killed.
C7Q12
The great younger son will make an end of the war,
he assembles the pardoned before the gods;
Ahors and Moissac will go far from the prison,
a refusal at Lectoure, the people of Agen shaved.
C7Q13
From the marine tributary city,
the shaven head will take up the satrapy;
to chase the sordid man who will the be against him.
For fourteen years he will hold the tyranny.
C7Q14
He will come to expose the false topography,
the urns of the tombs will be opened.
Sect and holy philosophy to thrive,
black for white and the new for the old.
C7Q15
Before the vity of the Insubrain lands,
for seven years the siege will be laid;
a very great king enters it,
the city is then free, away from its enemies.
C7Q16
The deep entry made by the great Queen
will make the place powerful and inaccessible;
the army of the three lions will be defeated
causing within a thing hideous and terrible.
C7Q17
The prince who has little pity of mercy
will come through death to change (and become) very knowledgeable.
The kingdom will be attended with great tranquillity,
when the great one will soon be fleeced.
C7Q18
The besieged will colour their pacts,
but seven days later they will make a cruel exit:
thrown back inside, fire and blood, seven put to the axe
the lady who had woven the peace is a captive.
C7Q19
The fort at Nice will not engage in combat,
it will be overcome by shining metal.
This deed will be debated for a long time,
strange and fearful for the citizens.
C7Q20
Ambassadors of the Tuscan language
will cross the Alps and the sea in April and May.
The man of the calf will deliver an oration,
not coming to wipe out the French way of life.
C7Q21
By the pestilential enmity of Languedoc,
the tyrant dissimulated will be driven out.
The bargain will be made on the bridge at Sorgues
to put to death both him and his follower
C7Q22
The citizens of Mesopotamia
angry with their friends from Tarraconne;
games, rites, banquets, every person asleep,
the vicar at RhÙne, the city taken and those of Ausonia.
C7Q23
The Royal sceptre will be forced to take
that which his predecessors had pledged.
Because they do not understand about the ring
when they come to sack the palace.
C7Q24
He who was buried will come out of the tomb,
he will make the strong one out of the bridge to be bound with chains.
Poisoned with the roe of a barbel,
the great one from Lorraine by the Marquis du Pont.
C7Q25
Through long war all the army exhausted,
so that they do not find money for the soldiers;
instead of gold or silver, they will come to coin leather,
Gallic brass, and the crescent sign of the Moon.
C7Q26
Foists and galleys around seven ships,
a mortal war will be let loose.
The leader from Madrid will receive a wound from arrows,
two escaped and five brought to land.
C7Q27
At the wall of Vasto the great cavalry
are impeded by the baggage near Ferrara.
At Turin they will speedily commit such robbery
that in the fort they will ravish their hostage.
C7Q28
The captain will lead a great herd
on the mountain closest to the enemy.
Surrounded by fire he makes such a way,
all escape except for thirty put on the spit.
C7Q29
The great one of Alba will come to rebel,
he will betray his great forebears.
The great man of Guise will come to vanquish him,
led captive with a monument erected.
C7Q30
The sack approaches, fire and great bloodshed.
Po the great rivers, the enterprise for the clowns;
after a long wait from Genoa and Nice,
Fossano, Turin the capture at Savigliano.
C7Q31
From Languedoc and Guienne more than ten
thousand will want to cross the Alps again.
The great Savoyards march against Brindisi,
Aquino and Bresse will come to drive them back.
C7Q32
From the bank of Montereale will be born one
who bores and calculates becoming a tyrant.
To raise a force in the marches of Milan,
to drain Faenza and Florence of gold and men
C7Q33
The kingdom stripped of its forces by fraud,
the fleet blockaded, passages for the spy;
two false friends will come to rally
to awaken hatred for a long time dormant.
C7Q34
The French nation will be in great grief,
vain and lighthearted, they will believe rash things.
No bread, salt, wine nor water, venom nor ale,
the greater one captured, hunger, cold and want.
C7Q35
The great fish will come to complain and weep
for having chosen, deceived concerning his age:
he will hardly want to remain with them,
he will be deceived by those (speaking) his own tongue.
C7Q36
God, the heavens, all the divine words in the waves,
carried by seven red-shaven heads to Byzantium:
against the anointed three hundred from Trebizond,
will make two laws, first horror then trust.
C7Q37
Ten sent to put the captain of the ship to death,
are altered by one that there is open revolt in the fleet.
Confusion, the leader and another stab and bite each other
at Lerins and the HyerËs, ships, prow into the darkness.
C7Q38
The elder royal one on a frisky horse
will spur so fiercely that it will bolt.
Mouth, mouthfull, foot complaining in the embrace;
dragged, pulled, to die horribly.
C7Q39
The leader of the French army
will expect to lose the main phalanx.
Upon the pavement of oatrs and slate
the foreign nation will be undermined through Genoa.
C7Q40
Within casks anointed outside with oil and grease
twenty-one will be shut before the harbour,
at second watch; through death they will do great deeds;
to win the gates and be killed by the watch.
C7Q41
The bones of the feet and the hands locked up,
because of the noise the house is uninhabited for a long time.
Digging in dreams they will be unearthed,
the house healthy in inhabited without noise.
C7Q42
Two newly arrived have seized the poison,
to pour it in the kitchen of the great Prince.
By the scullion both are caught in the act,
taken he who thought to trouble the elder with death.
C8Q1
Pau, Nay, Loron will be more of fire than blood,
to swim in praise, the great one to flee to the confluence (of rivers)
He will refuse entry to the magpies
Pampon and the Durance will keep them confined.
C8Q2
Condom and Auch and around Mirande,
I see fire from the sky which encompasses them.
Sun and Mars conjoined in Leo, then at Marmande,
lightning, great hail, a wall falls into the Garonne.
C8Q3
Within the strong castle of Vigilance and Resviers
the younger born of Nancy will be shut up.
In Turin the first ones will be burned,
when Lyons will be transported with grief.
C8Q4
The cock will be received into Monace,
the Cardinal of France will appear;
He will be deceived by the Roman legation;
weakness to the eagle, strength will be born to the cock.
C8Q5
There will appear a shining ornate temple,
the lamp and the candle at Borne and Breteuil.
For the canton of Lucerne turned aside,
when one will see the great cock in his shroud.
C8Q6
Lighting and brightness are seen at Lyons shining,
Malta is taken, suddenly it will be extinguished.
Sardon, Maurice will act deceitfully,
Geneva to London, feigning treason towards the cock.
C8Q7
Vercelli, Milan will give the news,
the wound will be given at Pavia.
To run in the Seine, water, blood and fire through Florence,
the unique one falling from high to low calling for help.
C8Q8
Near Focia enclosed in some tuns
Chivasso will plot for the eagle.
The elected one driven out, he and his people shut up,
rape with Turin, the bride led away.




C8Q9
While the eagle is united with the cock at Savonna,
the Eastern Sea and Hungary.
The army at Naples, Palermo, the marches of Ancona,
Rome and Venice a great outcry by the Barbarian.
C8Q10
A great stench will come from Lausanne,
but they will not know its origin,
they will put out all people from distant places,
fire seen in the sky, a foreign nation defeated.
C8Q11
A multitude of people will appear at Vicenza
without force, fire to burn the Basilica.
Near Lunage the great one of Valenza defeated:
at a time when Venice takes up the quarrel through custom.
C8Q12
He will appear near to Buffalora
the highly born and tall one entered into Milan.
The Abbe of Foix with those of Saint-Meur
will cause damage dressed up as serfs.
C8Q13
The crusader brother through impassioned love
will cause Bellerophon to die through Proetus;
the fleet for a thousand years, the maddened woman,
the potion drunk, both of them then die.
C8Q14
The great credit of gold and abundance of silver
will cause honour to be blinded by lust;
the offence of the adulterer will become known,
which will occur to his great dishonour.
C8Q15
Great exertions towards the North by a man-woman
to vex Europe and almost all the Universe.
The two eclipses will be put into such a rout
that they will reinforce life or death for the Hungarians.
C8Q16
At the place where HIERON has his ship built,
there will be such a great sudden flood,
that one will not have a place nor land to fall upon,
the waters mount to the Olympic Fesulan.
C8Q17
Those at ease will suddenly be cast down,
the world put into trouble by three brothers;
their enemies will seize the marine city,
hunger, fire, blood, plague, all evils doubled.
C8Q18
The cause of her death will be issued from Florence,
one time before drunk by young and old;
by the three lilies they will give her a great pause.
Save through her offspring as raw meat is dampened.
C8Q19
To support the great troubled Cappe;
the reds will march in order to clarify it;
a family will be almost overcome by death,
the red, red ones will knock down the red one.
C8Q20
The false message about the rigged election
to run through the city stopping the broken pact;
voices bought, chapel stained with blood,
the empire contracted to another one.
C8Q21
Three foists will enter the port of Agde
carrying the infection and pestilence, not the faith.
Passing the bridge they will carry off a million,
the bridge is broken by the resistance of a third.
C8Q22
Coursan, Narbonne through the salt to warn
Tuchan, the grace of Perpignan betrayed;
the red town will not wish to consent to it,
in a high flight, a copy flag and a life ended.
C8Q23
Letters are found in the queen's chests,
no signature and no name of the author.
The ruse will conceal the offers;
so that they do not know who the lover is.
C8Q24
The lieutenant at the door of the house,
will knock down the great man of Perpignag.
Thinking to save himself at Montpertuis,
the bastard of Lusignan will be deceived.
C8Q25
The heart of the lover, awakened by furtive love
will ravish the lady in the stream.
She will pretend bashfully to be half injured,
the father of each will deprive the body of its soul.
C8Q26
The bones of Cato found in Barcelona,
placed, discovered, the site found again and ruined.
The great one who holds, but does not hold,
wants Pamplona, drizzle at the abbey of Montserrat.
C8Q27
The auxiliary way, one arch upon the other,
Le Muy deserted except for the brave one and his genet.
The writing of the Phoenix Emperor,
seen by him which is (shown) to no other.
C8Q28
The copies of gold and silver inflated,
which after the theft were thrown into the lake,
at the discovery that all is exhausted and dissipated by the debt.
All scrips and bonds will be wiped out.
C8Q29
At the fourth pillar which they dedicate to Saturn
split by earthquake and by flood;
under Saturn's building an urn is found
gold carried off by Caepio and then restored.
C8Q30
In Toulouse, not far from Beluzer
making a deep pit a palace of spectacle,
the treasure found will come to vex everyone
in two places and near the Basacle.
C8Q31
The first great fruit of the prince of Perchiera,
then will come a cruel and wicked man.
In Venice he will lose his proud glory,
and is led into evil by then younger Selin.
C8Q32
French king, beware of your nephew
who will do so much that your only son
will be murdered while making his vows to Venus;
accompanied at night by three and six.
C8Q33
The great one who will be born of Verona and Vincenza
who carries a very unworthy surname;
he who at Venice will wish to take vengeance,
himself taken by a man of the watch and sign.
C8Q34
After the victory of the Lion over the Lion,
there will be great slaughter on the mountain of Jura;
floods and darkcoloured people of the seventh(of a million)
Lyons, Ulm at the mausoleum death and the tomb.
C8Q35
At the entrance to Garonne and Baise
and the forest not far from Damazan,
discoveries of the frozen sea, then hail and north winds.
Frost in the Dardonnais through the mistake of the month.
C8Q36
It will be committed against the anointed brought
from Lons le Saulnier, Saint Aubin and Bell'oeuvre.
To pave with marble taken from distant towers,
not to risist Bletteram and his masterpiece.
C8Q37
The fortress near the Thames
will fall when the king is locked up inside.
He will be seen in his shirt near the bridge,
one facing death then barred inside the fortress.
C8Q38
The King of Blois will reign in Avignon,
once again the people covered in blood.
In the RhÙne he will make swim
near the wallss up to five, the last one near Nolle.
C8Q39
He who will have been for the Byzantine prince
will be taken away by the prince of Toulouse.
The faith of Foix through the leader of Tolentino
will fail him, not refusing the bride.
C8Q40
The blood of the Just for Taur and La Duarade
in order to avenge itself against the Saturnines.
They will immerse the band in the new lake,
then they will march against Alba.
C8Q41
a fox will be elected without speaking one word,
appearing saintly in public living on barley bread,
afterwards he will suddenly become a tyrant
putting his foot on the throats of the greatest men.
C8Q42
Through avarice, through force and violence
the chief of OrlÈans will come to vex his supporters.
Near St. Memire, assault and resistance.
Dead in his tent they will say he is asleep inside.
C8Q43
Through the fall of two bastard creatures
the nephew of the blood will occupy the throne.
Within Lectoure there will be blows of lances,
the nephew through fear will fold up his standard.
C8Q44
The natural offspring off Ogmios
will turn off the road from seven to nine.
To the king long friend of the half man,
Navarre must destroy the fort at Pau.
C8Q45
With his hand in a sling and his leg bandaged,
the younger brother of Calais will reach far.
At the word of the watch, the death will be delayed,
then he will bleed at Easter in the Temple.
C8Q46
Paul the celibate will die three leagues from Rome,
the two nearest flee the oppressed monster.
When Mars will take up his horrible throne,
the Cock and the Eagle, France and the three brothers.
C8Q47
Lake Trasimene will bear witness
of the conspirators locked up inside Perugia.
A fool will imitate the wise one,
killing the Teutons, destroying and cutting to pieces.
C8Q48
Saturn in Cancer, Jupiter with Mars
in February 'Chaldondon' salva tierra.
Sierra Morena besieged on three sides
near Verbiesque, war and mortal conflict.
C8Q49
Saturn in Taurus, Jupiter in Aquarius. Mars in Sagittarius,
the sixth of February brings death.
Those of Tardaigne so great a breach at Bruges,
that the barbarian chief wilkl die at Ponteroso.
C8Q50
The plague around Capellades,
another famine is near to Sagunto;
the knightly bastard of the good old man
will cause the great one of Tunis to lose his head.
C8Q51
The Byzantine makes an oblation
after having taken back Cordoba.
A long rest on his road, the vines cut down,
at sea the passing prey captured by the Pillar.
C8Q52
The king of Blois to reign in Avignon,
from Amboise and 'Seme' the length of the Indre:
claws at Poitiers holy wings ruined
before Boni.
C8Q53
Within Boulogne he will want to wash away his misdeeds,
he cannot at the temple of the Sun.
He will fly away, doing very great things:
In the hierarchy he had never an equal.

C8Q54
Under the colour of the mariage treaty,
a magnanimous act by the 'Chyren selin':
St. Quintin and Arras recovered on the journey;
By the Spanish a second butcher's bench is made.
C8Q55
He will find himself shut in between two rivers,
casks and barrels joined to cross beyond:
eight bridges broken, their chief run through so many times,
perfect children's throats slit by the knife.
C8Q56
The weak band will occupy the land,
those of high places will make dreadful cries.
The large herd of the outer corner troubled,
near Edinburgh it falls discovered by the writings.
C8Q57
From simple soldier he will attain to Empire,
from the short robe he will grow into the long.
Brave in arms, much worse towards the Church,
he vexes the priests as water fills a sponge.
C8Q58
A kingdom divided by two quarrelling brothers
to take the arms and the name of Britain.
The Anglican title will be advised to watch out,
surprised by night ( the other is ), led to the French air.
C8Q59
Twice put up and twice cast down,
the East will also weaken the West.
Its adversary after several battles
chased by sea will fail at time of need.
C8Q60
First in Gaul, first in Roumania,
over land and sea against the English and Paris.
Marvellous deeds by that great troop,
violent, the wild beast will lose Lorraine.
C8Q61
Never by the revelation of daylight
will he attain the mark of the sceptre bearer.
Until all his sieges are at rest,
bringing to the Cock the gift of the armed legion.
C8Q62
When one sees the holy temple plundered,
the greatest of the RhÙne profaning their sacred things;
because of them a very great pestilence will appear,
the king, unjust, will not condemn them.
C8Q63
When the adulterer wounded without a blow
will have murdered his wife and son out of spite;
his wife knocked down, he will strangle the child;
eight captives taken, choked beyond help.
C8Q64
The infants transported into the islands,
two out of seven will be in despair.
Those of the soil will be supported by it,
the name 'shovel' taken, the hope of the leagues fails.
C8Q65
The old man disappointed in his main hope,
will attain to the leadership of his Empire.
Twenty months he will hold rule with great force,
a tyrant, cruel, giving way to one worse.
C8Q66
When the inscription D.M. is found
in the ancient cave, revealed by a lamp.
Law, the King and Prince Ulpian tried,
the Queen and Duke in the pavilion under cover.
C8Q67
Paris, Carcassone, France to ruin in great disharmony,
neither one nor the other will be elected.
France will have the love and good will of the people,
Ferara, Colonna great protection.
C8Q68
The old Cardinal is deceived by the young one,
he will find himself disarmed, out of his position:
Do not show, Arles, that the double is perceived,
both Liqueduct and the Prince embalmed.
C8Q69
Beside the young one the old angel falls,
and will come to rise above him at the end;
ten years equal to most the old one falls again,
of three two and one, the eighth seraphin.
C8Q70
He will enter, wicked, unpleasant, infamous,
tyrannizing over Mesopotamia.
All friends made by the adulterous lady,
the land dreadful and black of aspect.
C8Q71
The number of astrologers will grow so great,
that they will be driven out, banned and their books censored.
In the year 1607 by sacred assemblies
so that none will be safe from the holy ones.
C8Q72
Oh what a huge defeat on the Perugian battlefield
and the conflict very close to Ravenna.
A holy passage when they will celebrate the feast,
the conquerer banished to eat horse meat.
C8Q73
The king is struck by a barbarian soldier,
unjustly, not far from death.
The greedy will be the cause of the deed,
conspirator and realm in great remorse.
C8Q74
A king entered very far into the new land
while the subjects will come to bid him welcome;
his treachery will have such a result
that to the citizens it is a reception instead of a festival.
C8Q75
The father and son will be murdered together,
the leader within his pavilion.
The mother at Tours will have her belly swollen with a son,
a verdure chest with little pieces of paper.
C8Q76
More of a butcher than a king in England,
born of obscure rank will gain empire through force.
Coward without faith, without law he will bleed the land;
His time approaches so close that I sigh.
C8Q77
The antichrist very soon annihilates the three,
twenty-seven years his war will last.
The unbelievers are dead, captive, exiled;
with blood, human bodies, water and red hail covering the earth.
C8Q78
A soldier of fortune with twisted tongue
will come to the sanctuary of the gods.
He will open the door to heretics
and raise up the Church militant.
C8Q79
He who loses his father by the sword, born in a Nunnery,
upon this Gorgon's blood will conceive anew;
in a strange land he will do everything to be silent,
he who will burn both himself and his child.
C8Q80
The blood of innocents, widow and virgin,
so many evils committed by means of the Great Red One,
holy images placed over burning candles,
terrified by fear, none will be seen to move.
C8Q81
The new empire in desolation
will be changed from the Northern Pole.
From Sicily will come such troub that
it will bother the enterprise tributary to Philip.
C8Q82
Thin tall and dry, playing the good valet
in the end will have nothing but his dismissal;
sharp poison and letters in his collar,
he will be seized escaping into danger.




C8Q83
The largest sail set out of the port of Zara,
near Byzantium will carry out its enterprise.
Loss of enemy and friend will not be,
a third will turn on both with great pillage and capture.
C8Q84
Paterno will hear the cry from Sicily,
all the preparations in the Gulf of Trieste;
it will be heard as far as Sicily
flee oh, flee, so may sails, the dreaded pestilence !
C8Q85
Between Bayonne and St.Jean de Luz
will be placed the promontory of Mars.
To the Hanix of the North, Nanar will remove the light,
then suffocate in bed without assistance.
C8Q86
Through Emani, Tolosa and Villefranche,
an infinite band through the mountains of Adrian.
Passes the river, Cambat over the plank for a bridge,
Bayonne will be entered all crying Bigoree.
C8Q87
A death conspired will come to its full effect,
the charge given and the voyage of death.
Elected, created, received ( then ) defeated by its followers,
in remorse the blood of innocence in front of him.
C8Q88
A noble king will come to Sardinia,
who will only rule for three years in the kingdom.
He will join with himself several colours;
he himself, after taunts, care spoils slumber.
C8Q89
In order not to fall into the hands of his uncle
who slaughtered his children in order to reign.
Pleasing with the people, puttin his foot on 'Peloncle',
dead and dragged between armoured horses.
C8Q90
When those of the cross are found their senses troubled,
in place of sacred things he will see a horned bull,
through the virgin the pig's place will then be filled,
order will no longer be maintained by the king.
C8Q91
Entered among the field of the RhÙne ( dwellers )
where those of the cross are almost united,
the two lands meeting in Pisces
and a great number punished by the flood.
C8Q92
Far distant from his kingdom, sent on a dangerous journey,
he will lead a great army and keep it for himself.
The king will hold his people captive and hostage,
he will plunder the whole country on his return.
C8Q93
For seven months, no longer, will he hold the office of prelate,
through his death a great schism will arise;
for seven months another acts as prelate near Venice,
peace and union are reborn.
C8Q94
In front of the lake where the dearest one was destroyed
for seven months and his army routed;
Spaniards will be devastating by means of Alba,
through delay in giving battle, loss.
C8Q95
The seducer will be placed in a ditch
and will be tied up for some time.
The scholar joins the chief with his cross.
The sharp right will draw the contented ones.
C8Q96
The sterile synagogue without any fruit,
will be received by the infidels,
the daughter of the persecuted (man) of Babylon,
miserable and sad, they will clip her wings.
C8Q97
At the end of the Var the great powers change;
near the bank three beautiful children are born.
Ruin to the people when they are of age; in the country the kingdom is seen to grow and change more.
C8Q98
Of the church men the blood will bepoured forth
as abundant as water in (amount);
for a long time it will not be restrained,
woe, woe, for the clergy ruin and grief.
C8Q99
Through the power of three temporal kings,
the sacred seat will be put in another place,
where the substance of the body and the spirit
will be restored and received as the true seat.
C8Q100
By the great number of tears shed,
from top to bottom and from the bottome to the very top,
a life is lost through a game with too much faith,
to die of thirst through a great deficiency.
C9Q1
In the house of the translator of Bourg,
The letters will be found on the table,
One-eyed, red-haired, white, hoary-headed will hold the course,
Which will change for the new Constable.
C9Q2
From the top of the Aventine hill a voice heard,
Be gone, be gone all of you on both sides:
The anger will be appeased by the blood of the red ones,
From Rimini and Prato, the Colonna expelled.
C9Q3
The "great cow" at Racenna in great trouble,
Led by fifteen shut up at Fornase:
At Rome there will be born two double-headed monsters,
Blood, fire, flood, the greatest ones in space.
C9Q4
The following year discoveries through flood,
Two chiefs elected, the first one will not hold:
The refuge for the one of them fleeing a shadow,
The house of which will maintain the first une plundered.
C9Q5
The third toe will seem first
To a new monarch from low high,
He who will possess himself as a Tyrant of Pisa and Lucca,
To correct the fault of his predecessor.
C9Q6
An infinity of Englishmen in Guienne
Will settle under the name of Anglaquitaine:
In Languedoc, "Ispalme," Bordelais,
Which they will name after "Barboxitaine."
C9Q7
He who will open the tomb found,
And will come to close it promptly,
Evil will come to him, and one will be unable to prove,
If it would be better to be a Breton or Norman King.
C9Q8
The younger son made King will put his father to death,
After the conflict ver dishonest death:
Inscription found, suspicion will bring remore,
When the wolf driven out lies down ion the bedstead.
C9Q9
When the lamp burning with inextinguishable fire
Will be found in the temple of the Vestals:
Child found in fire, water passing through the sieve:
To peish in water N˚äes, Toulouse the markets to fall.
C9Q10
The child of a monk and nun exposed to death,
To die through a she-bear, and carried off by a boar,
The army will be camped by Foix and Pamiers,
Against Toulouse Carcassonne the harbinger to form.
C9Q11
Wrongly will they come to put the just one to death,
In public and in the middle extinguished:
So great a pestilence will come to arise in this place,
That the judges will be forced to flee.
C9Q12
So much silver of Diana and Mercury,
The images will be found in the lake:
The sculptor looking for new clay,
He and his followers will be steeped in gold.
C9Q13
The exiles around Sologne,
Led by night to march into Auxois,
Two of Modena for Bologna cruel,
Placed discovered by the fire of Buzan&cced;ais.
C9Q14
Dyers' caldrons put on the flat surface,
Wine, honey and oil, and built over furnaces:
They will be immersed, innocent, pronounced malefactors,
Seven of Borneaux smoke still in the cannon.
C9Q15
Near Perpignan the red ones detained,
Those of the middle completely ruined led far off:
Three cut in pieces, and five badly supported,
For the Lord and Prelate of Burgundy.
C9Q16
Out of Castelfranco will come the assembly,
The ambassador not agreeable will cause a schism:
Those of Riviera will be in the squabble,
And they will refuse entry to the great gulf.
C9Q17
The third one first does worse than Nero,
How much human blood to flow, valiant, be gone:
He will cause the furnace to be rebuilt,
Golden Age dead, new King great scandal.
C9Q18
The lily of the Dauphin will reach into Nancy,
As far as Flanders the Elector of the Empire:
New confinement for the great Montmorency,
Outside proven places delivered to celebrated punishment.
C9Q19
In the middle of the forest of Mayenne,
Lightning will fall, the Sun in Leo:
The great bastard issued from the great one Maine,
On this day a point will enter the blood of FougËres.
C9Q20
By night will come through the forest of "Reines,"
Two couples roundabout route Queen the white stone,
The monk king in gray in Varennes:
Elected Capet causes tempest, fire, blood, slice.
C9Q21
At the tall temple of Saint-Solenne at Blois,
Night Loire bridge, Prelate, King killing outright:
Crushing victory in the marshes of the pond,
Whence prelacy of whites miscarrying.
C9Q22
The King and his court in the place of cunning tongue,
Within the temple facing the palace:
In the garden the Duke of Mantue and Alba,
Alba and Mantua dagger tongue and palace.
C9Q23
The younger son playing outdoors under the arbor,
The top of the roof in the middle on his head,
The father King in the temple of Saint-Solonne,
Sacrificing he will consecrate festival smoke.
C9Q24
Upon the palace at the balcony of the windows,
The two little royal ones will be carried off:
To pass OrlÈans, Paris, abbey of Saint-Denis,
Nun, wicked ones to swallow green pits.
C9Q25
Crossing the bridges to come near the Roisiers,
Sooner than he thought, he arrived late.
The new Spaniards will come to BÈziers,
So that this chase will break the enterprise.
C9Q26
Departed by the bitter letters the surname of Nice,
The great Cappe will present something, not his own;
Near Voltai at the wall of the green columns,
After Piombino the wind in good earnest.
C9Q27
The forester, the wind will be close around the bridge,
Received highly, he will strike the Dauphin.
The old craftsman will pass through the woods in a company,
Going far beyond the right borders of the Duke.
C9Q28
The Allied fleet from the port of Marseilles,
In Venice harbour to march against Hungary.
To leave from the gulf and the bay of Illyria,
Devastation in Sicily, for the Ligurians, cannon shot.
C9Q29
When the man will give way to none,
Will wish to abandon a place taken, yet not taken;
Ship afire through the swamps, bitumen at Charlieu,
St. Quintin and Calais will be recaptured.
C9Q30
At the port of Pola and of San Nicolo,
A Normand will punish in the Gulf of Quarnero:
Capet to cry alas in the streets of Byzantium,
Help from Cadiz and the great Philip.
C9Q31
The trembling of the earth at Mortara
The tin island of St. George half sunk;
Drowsy with peace, war will arise,
At Easter in the temple abysses opened.
C9Q32
A deep column of fine porphyry is found,
Inscriptions of the Capitol under the base;
Bones, twisted hair, the Roman strength tried,
The fleet is stirred at the harbour of Mitylene.
C9Q33
Hercules King of Rome and of "Annemark,"
With the surname of the chief of triple Gaul,
Italy and the one of St. Mark to tremble,
First monarch renowned above all.
C9Q34
The single part afflicted will be mitred,
Return conflict to pass over the tile:
For five hundred one to betray will be titled
Narbonne and Salces we have oil for knives.
C9Q35
And fair Ferdinand will be detached,
To abandon the flower, to follow the Macedonian:
In the great pinch his course will fail,
And he will march against the Myrmidons.
C9Q36
A great King taken by the hands of a young man,
Not far from Easter confusion knife thrust:
Everlasting captive times what lightning on the top,
When three brothers will wound each other and murder.
C9Q37
Bridge and mills overturned in December,
The Garonne will rise to a very high place:
Walls, edifices, Toulouse overturned,
So that none will know his place like a matron.
C9Q38
The entry at Blaye for La Rochelle and the English,
The great Macedonian will pass beyond:
Not far from Agen will wait the Gaul,
Narbonne help beguiled through conversation.
C9Q39
In Albisola to "Veront" and Carcara,
Led by night to seize Savona:
The guick Gascon La Turbie and L'EscarËne:
Behind the wall old and new palace to seize.
C9Q40
Near Saint-Quintin in the forest deceived,
In the Abbey the Flemish will be cut up:
The two younger sons half-stunned by blows,
The rest crushed and the guard all cut to pieces.
C9Q41
The great "Chyren" will seize Avignon,
From Rome letters in honey full of bitterness:
Letter and embassy to leave from "Chanignon,"
Carpentras taken by a black duke with a red feather.
C9Q42
From Barcelona, from Genoa and Venice,
From Sicily pestilence Monaco joined:
They will take their aim against the Barbarian fleet,
Barbarian driven 'way back as far as Tunis.

C9Q43
On the point of landing the Crusader army
Will be ambushed by the Ishmaelites,
Struck from all sides by the ship Impetuosity,
Rapidly attacked by ten elite galleys.
C9Q44
Leave, leave Geneva every last one of you,
Saturn will be converted from gold to iron,
"Raypoz" will exterminate all who oppose him,
Before the coming the sky will show signs.
C9Q45
None will remain to ask,
Great "Mendosus" will obtian his dominion:
Far from the court he will cause to be countermanded
Piedmont, Picardy, Paris, Tuscany the worst.
C9Q46
Be gone, flee from Toulouse ye red ones,
For the sacrifice to make expiation:
The chief cause of the evil under the shade of pumpkins:
Dead to strangle carnal prognostication.
C9Q47
The undersigned to an infamous deliverance,
And having contrary advice from the multitude:
Monarch changes put in danger over thought,
Shut up in a cage they will see each other face to face.
C9Q48
The great city of the maritime Ocean,
Surrounded by a crystalline swamp:
In the winter solstice and the spring,
It will be tried by frightful wind.
C9Q49
Ghent and Brussels will march against Antwerp,
The Senate of London will put to death their King:
Salt and wine will overthrow him,
To have them the realm turned upside down.
C9Q50
Mendosus will soon come to his high realm,
Putting behind a little the Lorrainers:
The pale red one, the male in the interregnum,
The fearful youth and Barbaric terror.
C9Q51
Against the red ones sects will conspire,
Fire, water, steel, rope through peace will weaken:
On the point of dying those who will plot,
Except one who above all the world will ruin.
C9Q52
Peace is nigh on one side, and war,
Never was the pursuit of it so great:
To bemoan men, women innocent blood on the land,
And this will be throughout all France.
C9Q53
The young Nero in the three chimneys
Will cause live pages to be thrown to burn:
Happy those who will be far away from such practices,
Three of his blood will have him ambushed to death.
C9Q54
There will arrive at Porto Corsini,
Near Ravenna, he who will plunder the lady:
In the deep sea legate from Lisbon,
Hidden under a rock they will carry off seventy souls.
C9Q55
The horrible war which is being prepared in the West,
The following year will come the pestilence
So very horrible that young, old, nor beast,
Blood, fire Mercury, Mars, Jupiter in France.
C9Q56
The army near Houdan will pass Goussainville,
And at "Maiotes" it will leave its mark:
In an instant more than a thousand will be converted,
Looking for the two to put them back in chain and firewood.
C9Q57
In the place of "Drux" a King will rest,
And will look for a law changing Anathema:
While the sky will thunder so very loudly,
New entry the King will kill himself.

C9Q58
On the left side at the spot of Vitry,
The three red ones of France will be awaited:
All felled red, black one not murdered,
By the Bretons restored to safety.
C9Q59
At La FertÅEVidame he will seize,
Nicholas held red who had produced his life:
The great Louise who will act secretly one will be born,
Giving Burgundy to the Bretons through envy.
C9Q60
Conflict Barbarian in the black Headdress,
Blood shed, Dalmatia to tremble:
Great Ishmael will set up his promontory,
Frogs to tremble Lusitania aid.
C9Q61
The plunder made upon the marine coast,
In Cittanova and relatives brought forward:
Several of Malta through the deed of Messina
Will be closely confined poorly rewarded.
C9Q62
To the great one of Ceramon-agora,
The crusaders will all be attached by rank,
The long-lasting Opium and Mandrake,
The "Raugon" will be released on the third of October.
C9Q63
Complaints and tears, cries and great howls,
Near Narbonne at Bayonne and in Foix:
Oh, what horrible calamities and changes,
Before Mars has made several revolutions.
C9Q64
The Macedonian to pass the Pyrenees mountains,
In March Narbonne will not offer resistance:
By land and sea he will carry on very great intrigue,
Capetian having no land safe for residence.
C9Q65
He will come to go into the corner of "Luna,"
Where he will be captured and put in a strange land:
The unripe fruits will be the subject of great scandal,
Great blame, to one great praise.
C9Q66
There will be peace, union and change,
Estates, offices, low high and high very low:
To prepare a trip, the first offspring torment,
War to cease, civil process, debates.
C9Q67
From the height of the mountains around the IsËre,
One hundred assembled at the haven in the rock Valence:
From Ch‚teauneuf, Pierrelatte, in DonzËre,
Against Crest, Romans, faith assembled.
C9Q68
The noble of "Mount Aymar" will be made obscure,
The evil will come at the junction of the SaÙne and RhÙne:
Soldiers hidden in the woods on Lucy's day,
Never was there so horrible a throne.
C9Q69
One the mountain of Sain-Bel and L'Arbresle
The proud one of Grenoble will be hidden:
Beyond Lyons and Vienne on them a very great hail,
Lobster on the land not a third thereof will remain.
C9Q70
Sharp weapons hidden in the torches.
In Lyons, the day of the Sacrament,
Those of Vienne will all be cut to pieces,
By the Latin Cantons M‚con does not lie.
C9Q71
At the holy places animals seen with hair,
With him who will not dare the day:
At Carcassonne propitious for disgrace,
He will be set for a more ample stay.
C9Q72
Again will the holy temples be polluted,
And plundered by the Senate of Toulouse:
Saturn two three cycles completed,
In April, May, people of new leaven.

C9Q73
The Blue Turban King entered into Foix,
And he will reign less than an evolution of Saturn:
The White Turban King Byzantium heart banished,
Sun, Mars and Mercury near Aquarius.
C9Q74
In the city of "Fertsod" homicide,
Deed, and deed many oxen plowing no sacrifice:
Return again to the honors of Artemis,
And to Vulcan bodies dead ones to bury.
C9Q75
From Ambracia and the country of Thrace
People by sea, evil and help from the Gauls:
In Provence the perpetual trace,
With vertiges of their custom and laws.
C9Q76
With the rapacious and blood-thirsty king,
Issued from the pallet of the inhuman Nero:
Between two rivers military hand left,
He will be murdered by Yound Baldy.
C9Q77
The realm taken the King will conspire,
The lady taken to death ones sworn by lot:
They will refuse life to the Queen and son,
And the mistress at the fort of the wife.
C9Q78
The Greek lady of ugly beauty,
Made happy by countless suitors:
Transferred out to the Spanish realm,
Taken captive to die a miserable death.
C9Q79
The chief of the fleet through deceit and trickery
Will make the timid ones come out of their galleys:
Come out, murdered, the chief renouncer of chrism,
Then through ambush they will pay him his wages.
C9Q80
The Duke will want to exterminate his followers,
He will send the strongest ones to strange places:
Through tyranny to ruin Pisa and Lucca,
Then the Barbarians will gather the grapes without vine.
C9Q81
The crafty King will understand his snares,
Enemies to assail from three sides:
A strange number tears from hoods,
The grandeur of the translator will come to fail.
C9Q82
By the flood and fierce pestilence,
The great city for long besieged:
The sentry and guard dead by hand,
Sudden capture but none wronged.
C9Q83
Sun twentieth of Taurus the earth will tremble very mightily,
It will ruin the great theater filled:
To darken and trouble air, sky and land,
Then the infidel will call upon God and saints.
C9Q84
The King exposed will complete the slaughter,
After having discovered his origin:
Torrent to open the tomb of marble and lead,
Of a great Roman with "Medusine" device.
C9Q85
To pass Guienne, Languedoc and the RhÙne,
From Agen holding Marmande and La RÈole:
To open through faith the wall, Marseilles will hold its throne,
Conflict near Saint-Paul-de-Mausole.
C9Q86
From Bourg-la-Reine they will come straight to Chartres,
And near Pont d'Antony they will pause:
Seven crafty as Martens for peace,
Paris closed by an army they will enter.




C9Q87
In the forest cleared of the Tuft,
By the hermitage will be placed the temple:
The Duke of …tampes through the ruse he invented
Will teach a lesson to the prelate of MontlhÈry.
C9Q88
Calais, Arras, help to ThÈrouanne,
Peace and semblance the spy will simulate:
The soldiery of Savoy to descend by Roanne,
People who would end the rout deterred.
C9Q89
For seven years fortune will favor Philip,
He will beat down again the exertions of the Arabs:
Then at his noon perplexing contrary affair,
Young Ogmios will destroy his stronghold.
C9Q90
A captain of Great Germany
Will come to deliver through false help
To the King of Kings the support of Pannonia,
So that his revolt will cause a great flow of blood.
C9Q91
The horrible plague Perinthus and Nicopolis,
The Peninsula and Macedonia will it fall upon:
It will devastate Thessaly and Amphipolis,
An unknown evil, and from Anthony refusal.
C9Q92
The King will want to enter the new city,
Through its enemies they will come to subdue it:
Captive free falsely to speak and act,
King to be outside, he will keep far from the enemy.
C9Q93
The enemies very far from the fort,
The bastion brought by wagons:
Above the walls of Bourges crumbled,
When Hercules the Macedonian will strike.
C9Q94
Weak galleys will be joined together,
False enemies the strongest on the rampart:
Weak ones assailed Bratislava trembles,
LÅEeck and Meissen will take the barbarian side.
C9Q95
The newly made one will lead the army,
Almost cut off up to near the bank:
Help from the Milanais elite straining,
The Duke deprived of his eyes in Milan in an iron cage.
C9Q96
The army denied entry to the city,
The Duke will enter through persuasion:
The army led secretly to the weak gates,
They will put it to fire and sword, effusion of blood.
C9Q97
The forces of the sea divided into three parts,
The second one will run out of supplies,
In despair looking for the Elysian Fields,
The first ones to enter the breach will obtain the victory.
C9Q98
Those afflicted through the fault of a single one stained,
The transgressor in the opposite party:
He will send word to those of Lyons that compelled
They be to deliver the great chief of "Molite."
C9Q99
The "Aquilon" Wind will cause the siege to be raised,
Over the walls to throw ashes, lime and dust:
Through rain afterwards, which will do them much worse,
Last help against their frontier.
C9Q100
Naval battle night will be overcome,
Fire in the ships to the West ruin:
New trick, the great ship colored,
Anger to the vanquished, and victory in a drizzle.
C10Q1
To the ennemy, the enemy faith promised
Will not be kept, the captives retained:
One near death captured, and the remainder in their shirts,
The remainder damned for being supported.

C10Q2
The ship's veil will hide the sail galley,
The great fleet will come the lesser one to go out:
Ten ships near will turn to drive it back,
The great one conquered the united ones to join to itself.
C10Q3
After that five will not put out the flock,
A fugitive for "Penelon" he will turn loose:
To murmur falsely then help to come,
The chief will then abandon the siege.
C10Q4
At midnight the leader of the army
Will save himself, suddenly vanished:
Seven years later his reputation unblemished,
To his return they will never say yes.
C10Q5
Albi and Castres will form a new league,
Nine Arians Lisbon and the Portuguese:
Carcassonne and Toulouse will end their intrigue,
When the chief new monster from the Lauraguais.
C10Q6
The Gardon will flood N˚äes so high
That they will believe Deucalion reborn:
Into the colossus the greater part will flee,
Vesta tomb fire to appear extinguished.
C10Q7
The great conflict that they are preparing for Nancy,
The Macedonian will say I subjugate all:
The British Isle in anxiety over wine and salt,
"Hem. mi." Philip two Metz will not hold for long.
C10Q8
With forefinger and thumb he will moisten the forehead,
The Count of Senigallia to his own son:
The Venus through several of thin forehead,
Three in seven days wounded dead.
C10Q9
In the Castle of Figueras on a misty day
A sovereign prince will be born of an infamous woman:
Surname of breeches on the ground will make him posthumous,
Never was there a King so very bad in his province.
C10Q10
Stained with murder and enormous adulteries,
Great enemy of the entire human race:
One who will be worse than his grandfathers, uncles or fathers,
In steel, fire, waters, bloody and inhuman.
C10Q11
At the dangerous passage below Junquera,
The posthumous one will have his band cross:
To pass the Pyrenes mountains without his baggage,
From Perpignan the duke will hasten to Tende.
C10Q12
Elected Pope, as elected he will be mocked,
Suddenly unexpectedly moved prompt and timid:
Through too much goodness and kindness provoked to die,
Fear extinguished guides the night of his death.
C10Q13
Beneath the food of ruminating animals,
led by them to the belly of the fodder city:
Soldiers hidden, their arms making a noise,
Tried not far from the city of Antibes.
C10Q14
"Urnel Vaucile" without a purpose on his own,
Bold, timid, through fear overcome and captured:
Accompanied by several pale whores,
Convinced in the Carthusian convent at Barcelona.
C10Q15
Father duke old in years and choked by thirst,
On his last day his don denying him the jug:
Into the well plunged alive he will come up dead,
Senate to the thread death long and light.




C10Q16
Happy in the realm of France, happy in life,
Ignorant of blood, death, fury and plunder:
For a flattering name he will be envied,
A concealed King, too much faith in the kitchen.
C10Q17
The convict Queen seeing her daughter pale,
Because of a sorrow locked up in her breast:
Lamentable cries will come then from AngoulÍme,
And the marriage of the first cousin impeded.
C10Q18
The house of Lorraine will make way for VendÙme,
The high put low, and the low put high:
The son of Mammon will be elected in Rome,
And the two great ones will be put at a loss.
C10Q19
The day that she will be hailed as Queen,
The day after the benediction the prayer:
The reckoning is right and valid,
Once humble never was one so proud.
C10Q20
All the friend who will have belonged to the party,
For the rude in letters put to death and plundered:
Property up for sale at fixed price the great one annihilated.
Never were the Roman people so wronged.
C10Q21
Through the spite of the King supporting the lesser one,
He will be murdered presenting the jewels to him:
The father wishing to impress nobility on the son
Does as the Magi did of yore in Persia.
C10Q22
For not wishing to consent to the divorce,
Which then afterwards will be recognised as unworthy:
The King of the Isles will be driven out by force,
In his place put one who will have no mark of a king.
C10Q23
The remonstrances made to the ungrateful people,
Thereupon the army will seize Antibes:
The complaints will place Monace in the arch,
And at FrÈjus the one will take the shore from the other
C10Q24
The captive prince conquered in Italy
Will pass Genoa by sea as far as Marseilles:
Through great exertion by the foreigners overcome,
Safe from gunshot, barrel of bee's liquor.
C10Q25
Through the Ebro to open the passage of "Bisanne,"
Very far away will the Tagus make a demonstration:
In "Pelligouxe" will the outrage be commited,
By the great lady seated in the orchestra.
C10Q26
The successor will avenge his brother-in-law,
To occupy the realm under the shadow of vengeance:
Obstacle slain his blood for the death blame,
For a long time will Brittany hold with France.
C10Q27
Through the fifth one and a great Hercules
They will come to open the temple by hand of war:
One Clement, Julius and Ascanius set back,
The sword, key, eagle, never was there such a great animosity.
C10Q28
Second and third which make prime music
By the King to be sublimated in honor:
Through the fat and the thin almost emaciated,
By the false report of Venus to be debased.
C10Q29
In a cave of Saint-Paul-de-Mausole a goat
Hidden and seized pulled out by the beard:
Led captive like a mastiff beast
By the Bigorre people brought to near Tarbes.
C10Q30
Nephew and blood of the new saint come,
Through the surname he will sustain arches and roof:
They will be driven out put to death chased nude,
Into red and black will they convert their green.
C10Q31
The Holy Empire will come into Germany,
The Ishmaelites will find open places:
The asses will want also Carmania,
The supportes all covered by earth.
C10Q32
The great empire, everyone would be of it,
One will come to obtain it over the others:
But his realm and state will be of short duration,
Two years will he be able to maintain himself on the sea.
C10Q33
The cruel faction in the long robe
Will come to hide under the sharp daggers:
The Duke to seize Florence and the diphthong place,
Its discovery by immature ones and sycophants.
C10Q34
The Gaul who will hold the empire through war,
He will be betrayed by his minor brother-in-law:
He will be drawn by a fierce, prancing horce,
The brother will be hated for the deed for a long time
C10Q35
The younger son of the king flagrant in burning lust
To enjoy his first cousin:
Female attire in the Temple of Artemis,
Going to be murdered by the unknown one of Maine.
C10Q36
Upon the King of the stump speaking of wars,
The United Isle will hold him in contempt:
For several good years one gnawing and pillaging,
Through tyranny in the isle esteem changing.
C10Q37
The great assembly near the Lake of Bourget,
They will meet near MontmÈlian:
Going beyond the thoughful ones will draw up a plan,
ChambÈry, Saint-Jean-de-Maurienne, Saint-Julien combat.
C10Q38
Sprightly love lays the siege not far,
The garrisons will be at the barbarian saint:
The Orsini and "Adria" will provide a guarantee for the Gauls,
For fear deliverd by the army to the Grisons.
C10Q39
First son, widow, unfortunate marriage,
Without any children two Isles in discord:
Before eighteen, incompetent age,
For the other one the betrothal will take place while younger.
C10Q40
The young heir to the British realm,
Whom his dying father will have recommended:
The latter dead "Lonole" will dispute with him,
And from the son the realm demanded.
C10Q41
On the boundary of Caussade and Caylus,
Not at all far from the bottom of the valley:
Music from Villefranche to the sound of lutes,
Encompassed by cymbals and great stringing.
C10Q42
The humane realm of Anglican offspring,
It will cause its realm to hold to peace and union:
War half-captive in its enclosure,
For long will it cause them to maintain peace.
C10Q43
Too much good times, too much of royal goodness,
Ones made and unmade, quick, sudden, neglectful:
Lightly will he believe falsely of his loyal wife,
He put to death through his benevolence.
C10Q44
When a King will be against his people,
A native of Blois will subjugate the Ligurians,
Memel, Cordoba and the Dalmatians,
Of the seven then the shadow to the King handsel and ghosts.



C10Q45
The shadow of the realm of Navarre untrue,
It will make his life one of fate unlawful:
The vow made in Cambrai wavering,
King OrlÈans will give a lawful wall.
C10Q46
In life, fate and death a sordid, unworthy man of gold,
He will not be a new Elector of Saxony:
From Brunswick he will send for a sign of love,
The false seducer delivering it to the people.
C10Q47
At the Garland lady of the town of Burgos,
They will impose for the treason commited:
The great prelate of Leon through "Formande",
Undone by false pilgrims and ravishers.
C10Q48
Banners of the deepest part of Spain,
Coming out from the tip and ends of Europe:
Troubles passing near the bridge of "Laigne",
Its great army will be routed by a band.
C10Q49
Garden of the world near the new city,
In the path of the hollow mountains:
It will be seized and plunged into the Tub,
Forced to drink waters poisoned by sulfur.
C10Q50
The Meuse by day in the land of Luxemburg,
It will find Saturn and three in the urn:
Mountain and plain, town, city and borough,
Flood in Lorraine, betrayed by the great urn.
C10Q51
Some of the lowest places of the land of Lorraine
Will be united with the Low Germans:
Through those of the see Picards, Normans, those of Main,
And they will be joined to the cantons.
C10Q52
At the place where the Lys and the Scheldt unite,
The nuptials will be arranged for a long time:
At the place in Antwerp where they carry the chaff,
Young old age wife undefiled.
C10Q53
The three concubines will fight each other for a long time,
The greatest one the least will remain to watch:
The great "Selin" will no longer be her patron,
She will call him fire shield white route.
C10Q54
She born in this world of a furtive concubine,
At two raised high by the sad news:
She will be taken captive by her enemies,
And brought to Malines and Brussels.
C10Q55
The unfortunate nuptials will be celebrated
In great joy but the end unhappy:
Husband and mother will slight the daughter-in-law,
The Apollo dead and the daughter-in-law more pitiful.
C10Q56
The royal prelate his bowing too low,
A great flow of blood will come out of his mouth:
The Anglican realm a realm pulled out of danger,
For long dead as a stump alive in Tunis.
C10Q57
The uplifted one will not know his sceptre,
He will disgrace the young children of the greatest ones:
Never was there a more filthy and cruel being,
For their wives the king will banish them to death.
C10Q58
In the time of mourning the feline monarch
Will make war upon the young Macedonian:
Gaul to shake, the bark to be in jeopardy,
Marseilles to be tried in the West a talk.
C10Q59
Within Lyons twenty-five of one mind,
Five citizens, Germans, Bressans, Latins:
Under a noble one they will lead a long train,
And discovered by barks of mastiffs.

C10Q60
I weep for Nice, Monaco, Pisa, Genoa,
Savona, Siena, Capua, Modena, Malta:
For the above blood and sword for a New Year's gift,
Fire, the earth to tremble, water, unfortunate nolition.
C10Q61
"Betta," Vienna, "Emorte," Sopron,
They will want to deliver Pannonia to the Barbarians:
Enormous violence through pike and fire,
The conspirators discovered by a matron.
C10Q62
Near "Sorbia" to assail Hungary,
The herald of "Brudes" will come to warn them:
Byzantine chief, Salona of Slavonia,
He will come to convert them to the law of the Arabs.
C10Q63
Cydonia, Ragusa, the city of St. Jerome,
With healing help to grow green again:
The King's sone dead because of the death of two heroes,
Araby and Hungary will take the same course.
C10Q64
Weep Milan, weep Lucca and Florence,
As your great Duke climbs into the chariot:
The see to change it advances to near Venice,
When at Rome the Colonna will change.
C10Q65
O vast Rome, thy ruin approaches,
Not of thy walls, of thy blood and substance:
The one harsh in letters will make a very horrible notch,
Pointed steel driven into all up to the hilt.
C10Q66
The chief of London through the realm of America,
The Isle of Scotland will be tried by frost:
King and "Reb" will face an Antichrist so false,
That he will place them in the conflict all together.
C10Q67
A very mighty trembling in the month of May,
Saturn in Capricorn, Jupiter and Mercury in Taurus:
Venus also, Cancer, Mars in Virgo,
Hail will fall larger than an egg.
C10Q68
The army of the sea will stand before the city,
Then it will leave without making a long passage:
A great flock of citizens will be seized on land,
Fleet to return to seize it great robbery.
C10Q69
The shining deed of the old one exalted anew,
Through the South and "Aquilon" they will be very great:
Raised by his own sister great crowds,
Fleeing, murdered in the thicket of "Ambellon."
C10Q70
Through an object the eye will swell very much,
Burning so much that the snow will fall:
The fields watered will come to shrink,
As the primate succumbs at Reggio.
C10Q71
The earth and air will freeze a very great sea,
When they will come to venerate Thursday:
That which will be never was it so fair,
From the four parts they will come to honor it.
C10Q72
The year 1999, seventh month,
From the sky will come a great King of Terror:
To bring back to life the great King of the Mongols,
Before and after Mars to reign by good luck.
C10Q73
The present time together with the past
Will be judged by the great Jovialist:
The world too late will be tired of him,
And through the clergy outh-taker disloyal.
C10Q74
The year of the great seventh number accomplished,
It will appear at the time of the games of slaughter:
Not far from the great millennial age,
When the buried will go out from their tombs.

C10Q75
Long awaited he will never return
In Europe, he will appear in Asia:
One of the league issued from the great Hermes,
And he will grow over all the Kings of the East.
C10Q76
The great Senate will ordain the triumph
For one who afterwards will be vanquished, driven out:
At the sound of the trumpet of his adherents there will be
Put up for sale their possessions, enemies expelled.
C10Q77
Thirty adherents of the order of "Quirites"
Banished, their possessions given their adversaries:
All their benefits will be taken as misdeeds,
Fleet dispersed, delivered to the Corsairs.
C10Q78
Sudden joy to sudden sadness,
It will occur at Rome for the graces embraced:
Grief, cries, tears, weeping, blood, excellent mirth,
Contrary bands surprised and trussed up.
C10Q79
The old roads will all be improved,
One will procedd on them to the modern Memphis:
The great Mercury of Hercules fleur-de-lys,
Causing to tremble lands, sea and country.
C10Q80
In the realm the great one of the great realm reigning,
Through force of arms the great gates of brass
He will cause to open, the King and Duke joining,
Fort demolished, ship to the bottom, day serene.
C10Q81
A treasure placed in a temple by "Hesperian" citizens,
Therein withdrawn to a secret place:
The hungry bonds to open the temple,
Retaken, ravished, a horrible prey in the midst.
C10Q82
Cries, weeping, tears will come with knives,
Seeming to flee, they will deleiver a final attack,
Parks around to set up high platforms,
The living pushed back and murdered instantly.
C10Q83
The signal to give battle will not be given,
They will be obliged to go out of the park:
The banner around Ghent will be recognized,
Of him who will cause all his followers to be put to death.
C10Q84
The illegitimate girl so high, high, not low,
The late return will make the grieved ones contended:
The Reconciled One will not be without debates,
In employing and losing all his time.
C10Q85
The old tribune on the point of trembling,
He will be pressed not to deliver the captive:
The will, non-will, speaking the timid evil,
To deliver to his friends lawfully.
C10Q86
Like a griffin will come the King of Europe,
Accompanied by those of "Aquilon":
He will lead a great troop of red ones and white ones,
And they will go against the King of Babylon.
C10Q87
A Great King will come to take port near Nice,
Thus the death of the great empire will be completed:
In Antibes will he place his heifer,
The plunder by sea all will vanish.
C10Q88
Foot and Horse at the second watch,
They will make an entry devastating all by sea:
Within the port of Marseilles he will enter,
Tears, cries, and blood, never times so bitter.
C10Q89
The walls will be converted from brick to marble,
Seven and fifty pacific years:
Joy to mortals, the aquaduct renewed,
Health, abundance of fruits, joy and mellifluous times.

C10Q90
A hundred times will the inhuman tyrant die,
In his place put one learned and mild,
The entire Senate will be under his hand,
He will be vexed by a rash scoundrel.
C10Q91
In the year 1609, Roman clergy,
At the beginning of the year you will hold an election:
Of one gray and black issued from Campania,
Never was there one so wicked as he.
C10Q92
Before his father the child will be killed,
The father afterwards between ropes of rushes:
The people of Geneva will have exerted themselves,
The chief lying in the middle like a log.
C10Q93
The new bark will take trips,
There and near by they will transfer the Empire:
Beaucaire, Arles will retain the hostages,
Near by, two columns of Porphyry found.
C10Q94
Scorn from N˚äes, from Arles and Vienne,
Not to obey the "Hesperian" edict:
To the tormented to condemn the great one,
Six escaped in seraphic garb.
C10Q95
To the Spains will come a very powerful King,
By land and sea subjugating the South:
This evil will cause, lowering again the crescent,
Clipping the wings of those of Friday.
C10Q96
The Religion of the name of the seas will win out
Against the sect of the son of "Adaluncatif":
The stubborn, lamented sect will be afraid
Of the two wounded by A and A.
C10Q97
Triremes full of captives of every age,
Good time for bad, the sweet for the bitter:
Prey to the Barbarians hasty they will be too soon,
Anxious to see the feather wail in the wind.
C10Q98
For the merry maid the bright splendor
Will shine no longer, for long will she be without salt:
With merchants, bullies, wolves odious,
All confusion universal monster.
C10Q99
The end of wolf, lion, ox and ass,
Timid deer they will be with mastiffs:
No longer will the sweet manna fall upon them,
More vigilance and watch for the mastiffs.
C10Q100
The great empire will be for England,
The all-powerful one for more than three hundred years:
Great forces to pass by sea and land,
The Lusitanians will not be satisfied thereby


********** The Complete Prophecies of Nostradamus ***********

http://santanu.virtualave.net/HTML/prophecy.html
